Turkey
If your heart points out to the places soaked in culture and history, your mind craves entertainment and buzzing nightlife and your soul wants to seep in the unhurried, relaxing experiences, it’s quite rare that you will find a place with almost everything in a blink of an eye. But Turkey surely is one such extraordinary gem! A modern country depicting the captivating blends of ancient and contemporary, business and leisure and the calm and chaotic, Turkey is truly a pleasant surprise to the senses. If precisely defined, there is no other place in the world that fuses East and West with such ease. With a rich mix of people, cultures, history, scenic beauty, great food and so much more, the incredible Turkey Attractions offer a wealth of unique experiences to any and every kind of travellers. Fall head over heels in love with the façade of Hagia Sofia touching the skyline of Istanbul, gape in awe at the magnificence of the Roman ruins and grandiose of Aspendos, discover the beautiful beaches of Antalya or lodge in the seaside resorts, take a hot air balloon tour of Cappadocia, go for a soul-soothing Turkish bath, sip in the famous Turkish tea, shop till you drop in the alleys of Turkish bazaars, go boat cruising on the Bosphorus, explore the hushed streets of the Princes’ Islands, see the mosques of Bursa, enjoy a bird's eye view of Istanbul from the Galata Tower or just opt for walking tours experiencing the country on foot. Truly and undeniably, the Turkey tourist places have it all! Despite having an abundance of destinations adorning its tourism portfolio, Turkey has always got the glare of publicity because of Istanbul. Sitting on the edge of Europe, Turkey’s cultural and buzzing capital- Istanbul features top spots for business meetings along with leisure hubs where you can chill out without fearing the stress of routined hassles. Of course, the magnificent Hagia Sophia (Aya Sofya) Museum in Sultan Ahmet district tops the list of popular places to visit in Istanbul but there is so much to explore beyond this architectural masterpiece. Those looking to shop and take the little versions of Turkey home can head to Grand Bazaar. This covered market is a maze of alleys lined by shops and stalls selling every Turkish souvenir, handicrafts, Turkish lamps and ceramic bowls and local delicacies like Baklawas and authentically extracted honey. Don’t miss out on these incredible Istanbul Tourist Attractions - Galata Tower and the Taksim Square as they are truly the thumping heartbeats of the city. Once the sun goes down and you are tired of exploring, a traditional Turkish bath (popularly known as Hammam) comes to the rescue. Both the travellers and nostalgic locals (who have up kept the tradition of Hammans and its mandate cleansing rituals very well to date) are seen thronging these bathhouses. After all, what’s better than ending your fervid travelling schedule with a rejuvenating bath and massage? With innumerable places to visit in Turkey, it is hard to filter out just a few to fit in your itinerary. We have, therefore, prepared a comprehensive list of the must-visit Turkey Tourist Attractions below that will help you find your way through the most exceptional experiences in the country along with the unmissable Istanbul Attractions.
Hagia Sophia Museum
Hagia Sophia officially the Hagia Sophia Grand Mosque and formerly the Church of the Holy Wisdom is a Late Antique place of worship in Istanbul designed by the Greek geometers Isidore of Miletus and Anthemius of Tralles.

Galata Tower
The towers were built during the Genoese period and now it’s one of Istanbul’s iconic towers that shed its light all over the city. It is the tallest structure that reaches the skyline of the Golden horn which makes it top Istanbul tourist attractions. There’s been many tales and stories about the Galata Tower, and one of the most famous among them is about legendary Hezaffen Ahmet Celebi.

Dolmabahce Palace


Sultan Ahmet Square Detached House
Public square with remnants of an ancient hippodrome with prominent & historic buildings nearby.

Spice Bazaar
Covered 17th-century market known as the Egyptian Bazaar with spice food & textile shops.

Topkapi Palace Museum
The Topkap Palace or the Seraglio is a large museum in the east of the Fatih district of Istanbul in Turkey. In the 15th and 16th centuries it served as the main residence and administrative headquarters of the Ottoman sultans.

Devrent (Imaginary Valley)
Devrent Valley also called Imagination Valley is one of the fantastic regions of Cappadocia. Devrent Valley was never inhabited by humans. There are no rock-hewn churches or ancient castles nor are there any troglodyte caves or pigeon homes. Instead what draws visitors to Devrent Valley is the incredible pink-hued rock formations and geological anomalies that have been formed by centuries of erosion. Wind and water have worked away at the soft volcanic tuff to leave behind compelling pillar-like shapes and other odd forms.

Avanos
Avanos is a town and district of Nevehir Province in the Central Anatolia region of Turkey located 18 km north of Nevehir the capital city of the province. It is situated within the historic and tourist region of Cappadocia.

Open Air Museum


Kaymaklı


The Village Cave Hotel


Ortahisar Castle
Ortahisar previously known by its Byzantine Greek name  is a small town in the rgp district of Nevehir Province in Cappadocia Turkey. Ortahisar has 14262 inhabitants as of 2015 and is located about 20 km east of the provincial capital Nevehir. The entire town is dominated by the 90-meter-high rock castle in the center of the town which is called Sivrikoya by the inhabitants. It is an extraordinary example of the rock-cut architecture which is typical of the region and served as a refuge from attackers in Byzantine times. Ortahisar Castle is one of its biggest tourist attractions. It was opened to the public in 2013 after extensive renovations.

Blue Mosque
The Blue Mosque in Istanbul also known by its official name the Sultan Ahmed Mosque is an Ottoman-era historical imperial mosque located in Istanbul Turkey. A functioning mosque also attracts large numbers of tourist visitors. It was constructed between 1609 and 1616 during the rule of Ahmed I. Its Klliye contains Ahmeds tomb a madrasah and a hospice. Hand-painted blue tiles adorn the mosques interior walls and at night the mosque is bathed in blue as lights frame the mosques five main domes six minarets and eight secondary domes. It sits next to the Hagia Sophia the principal mosque of Istanbul until the Blue Mosques construction and another popular tourist site. The Blue Mosque was included in the UNESCO World Heritage Site list in 1985 under the name of Historic Areas of Istanbul.

Bosphorus Bridge
Boat tours provide visitors with unique city views from this strait separating Europe & Asia.

Dden Waterfalls
Scenic waterfall & park by the sea

Antalya Museum
he Antalya Museum or Antalya Archeological Museum is one of Turkeys largest museums located in Konyaalt Antalya.

Mount Tahtal
Prominent mountain with a cable car

House of Virgin Mary
The House of the Virgin Mary is a Catholic shrine located on Mt. Koressos in the vicinity of Ephesus 7 kilometres from Seluk in Turkey.

zmir Clock Tower
zmir Clock Tower is a historic clock tower located at the Konak Square in the Konak district of zmir Turkey.

Grand Bazaar
The Grand Bazaar in Istanbul is one of the largest and oldest covered markets in the world with 61 covered streets and over 4000 shops on a total area of 30700 m2 attracting between 250000 and 400000 visitors daily. In 2014 it was listed No.1 among the worlds most-visited tourist attractions with 91250000 annual visitors.[6] The Grand Bazaar in Istanbul is often regarded as one of the first shopping malls in the world.

Uchisar Castle


Bykada emesi
Charming island with historic homes

Goreme Open Air Museum
The Goreme Open Air Museum has been included in the UNESCO World Heritage List since 1984. It is only 15 minutes walk from Goreme village center. It contains the finest of the rock-cut churches with beautiful frescoes whose colors still retain all their original freshness. It also presents unique examples of rock-hewn architecture and fresco techniques.

Manavgat Waterfall
Waterfall and river

Hadrians Gate
Historical landmark in Antalya Turkey

Golden Horn
The Golden Horn is a major urban waterway and the primary inlet of the Bosphorus in Istanbul Turkey. As a natural estuary that connects with the Bosphorus Strait at the point where the strait meets the Sea of Marmara the waters of the Golden Horn help define the northern boundary of the peninsula constituting Old Istanbul the tip of which is the promontory of Sarayburnu or Seraglio Point. This estuarial inlet geographically separates the historic center of Istanbul from the rest of the city and forms a horn-shaped sheltered harbor that in the course of history has protected Greek Roman Byzantine Ottoman and other maritime trade ships for thousands of years.

Mausoleum At Halicarnassius
Archaeological site with the ruins of the huge tomb of Mausolus dating from around 350 B.C..

Pigeon Valley
Pigeon valley is situated between Greme and Uhisar and is ideal for walking as the trek is relatively easy. The name comes from the thousands of pigeon houses that have been carved into the soft tuff since ancient times. You can hike the Pigeon Valley between Greme and Uhisar. The 4km trail starts from the road near the Ataman Hotel on the south side of Greme or on the paved road on the north side of the hill where Uhisar Castle sits in Uhisar. Both trailheads are signed. Stick to the more traveled trails and you will have no trouble finding your way on this moderately hilly hike. The path through the valley offers spectacular views of the natural cliffs and the man-made caves and passes through a few tunnels carved into the rock.

Maidens Tower
The Maidens Tower also known as Leanders Tower since the medieval Byzantine period is a tower on a small islet at the southern entrance of the Bosphorus strait 200 m from the coast of Uskudar in Istanbul Turkey.

Rstem Pasha Mosque
The Rstem Pasha Mosque is an Ottoman mosque located in the Hasrclar ars in the Tahtakale neighborhood of the Fatih district of Istanbul Turkey near the Spice Bazaar. Named after Rstem Pasha who served as Grand Vizier of the Ottoman Empire under Sultan Suleiman I it was designed by the Ottoman imperial architect Mimar Sinan and completed in around 1563.

Turkish and Islamic Arts Museum
The Turkish and Islamic Arts Museum is a museum located in Sultanahmet Square in the Fatih district of Istanbul Turkey. Constructed in 1524 the building was formerly the palace of Pargal Ibrahim Pasha who was the second grand vizier to Suleiman the Magnificent and was once thought to have been the husband of the Sultans sister Hatice Sultan.

Soganli Valley
Soanl Valley is located in Yeilhisar district Kayseri Province Turkey in the southeastern part of the region of Cappadocia. The valley contains several rock-cut churches and other rock-cut buildings carved from the soft tuff stone of the Cappadocian landscape.

Kaleici
Kaleii is the historic city center of Antalya Turkey. Until modern times almost the entire city was confined within its walls. It has structures dating from the Roman Byzantine Seljuk Ottoman and modern Turkish republican eras. Most of it however dates to the late 18th and 19th centuries.

Istanbul Archaeological Museums
The Istanbul Archaeology Museums are a group of three archaeological museums located in the Eminn quarter of Istanbul Turkey near Glhane Park and Topkap Palace. The Istanbul Archaeology Museum consists of three museums the Archaeological Museum Museum of the Ancient Orient Museum of Islamic Art.

The Bodrum Castle Of The Knights Of St. John
Castle with underwater archeology museum

Gkova Krfezi
Sailing kitesurfing and marina

Kursunlu Waterfalls
The Kurunlu Waterfall has located 19 km from Antalya Turkey at the end of a 7 km road branching off to the north of the Antalya-Serik-Alanya highway at a point 12 km east of Antalya. It is reduced to a mere trickle in the summer months. The waterfall is on one of the tributaries of the Aksu River where the tributary drops from Antalyas plateau to the coastal plain. It is situated in the midst of a pine forest of exceptional beauty and the environs provide a picnic and pleasure spot about twenty minutes by car from the center of the city of Antalya.

Hunat Hatun Complex
Early in the 13th century Kayqubad I Sultan of the Anatolian Seluks captured the Alanya fortress from its Armenian ruler Kir Vart. One of the conditions of Varts surrender was that his daughter Hunat Mahperi Hatun would become the sultans wife.

Pamukkale
Pamukkale is a town in western Turkey known for the mineral-rich thermal waters flowing down white travertine terraces on a nearby hillside. It neighbors Hierapolis an ancient Roman spa city founded around 190 B.C. Ruins there include a well-preserved theater and a necropolis with sarcophagi that stretch for 2km. The Antique Pool is famous for its submerged Roman columns the result of an earthquake.

Hierapolis Ancient City
Hierapolis was an ancient Greek city located on hot springs in classical Phrygia in southwestern Anatolia. Its ruins are adjacent to modern Pamukkale in Turkey and currently comprise an archaeological museum. The site has the Tomb of Philip the Apostle. Hierapolis became a healing center where doctors used the thermal springs as a treatment for their patients.

stiklal Caddesi
Busy city avenue with shops & cafes

Ephesus Ancient City


Kurunlu
National reserve

Beylerbeyi Palace
The Beylerbeyi Palace Beylerbeyi meaning Lord of Lords is located in the Beylerbeyi neighborhood of skdar district in Istanbul Turkey on the Asian side of the Bosphorus. An Imperial Ottoman summer residence built between 1861 and 1865 it is now situated immediately north of the First Bosphorus Bridge.

Kariye Mosque
The Kariye Mosque formerly known as the Church of the Holy Saviour in Chora was a medieval Greek Orthodox church now used as a mosque in the Edirnekap neighborhood of Istanbul Turkey. The neighborhood is situated in the western part of the municipality of the Fatih district.

Istanbul
Over the centuries, Istanbul’s important places have attracted many marauding armies from Greece, Rome and Venice before the Ottoman Empire took over. The legendary Silk Road linking Europe and Asia is what’s drawn merchants to the country. They like it so much that they stayed, and that’s what gave the city its cultural diversity up to this day and it’s become one of turkey tourist spots.

Ankara
Ankara is the capital city of Turkey lying at an altitude of 850 m on the Anatolian Plateau. The plateau offers a harsh landscape with its infinite steppe, young volcanoes and wheat fields. Having all this and it’s unbelievable to see how history reveals millennia rich with a lot of emotive episodes. The famous Hittite Empire, one of the superpower ruins which arrived here.

Cappadocia
Settled in the middle of Turkey on a high, dry plateau ground, yet it looks like it’s been pluck from a fairytale world and set down upon earth. The hails, surreal swooping rock valleys and cliff ridges are home wavy rocks or wacky shaped pinnacles that have been formed by nature itself. From the top view, you can see turkey attractions such as the Uchisar Castle, Red Valley, Pigeon Valley, Monks Valley, Devrent Valley.

Ephesus
The mighty ruins of Ephesus are turkey tourist attractions that should not be missed. Unlike many of the colossal monuments, this is the place where you will find the most complete, still-standing Roman cities that are still well-preserved in modern day Turkey. One of the seven wonders places to see what lives must have been during the golden age of the Roman Empire.

Bodrum
Tourists come to soak in Turkey’s turquoise coast and charm as the coast is always at its most vibrant. Bodrum is a holiday destination where the marina is full of yachts to take you out to the Mediterranean water or even gaze at a handful of ancient turkey tourist spots such as the Bodrum Castle; old town filled with old, whitewashed and photographic houses.

Bursa
The first Ottoman Empire built around mausoleums, mosques and other sites right from its incarnation. Despite having its historical remains, Bursa is still modern and industrial. What keeps the city remarkably placid in places is its durable Ottoman core and plenteous parks. For some fresh air after strolling around the Old Silk Market, the Grand Mosque, few peaks and places to visit in turkey are nearby.

Sumela Monastery
The Greek Orthodox monastery is a popular turkey tourist attraction dedicated to the Virgin Mary at Melá Mountain. Visiting its stunning site located in a lonely setting and built into a cliff face is one of the things to do in Turkey along the Black Sea Coast. It was opened during the Byzantine era but was soon closed down in 1923. It’s now the most visited abandoned religious site with empty cells that was once resided by the monks.

Mount Nemrut
The 2,134-metre-high mountain is a top sightseeing draw-card in south-eastern Turkey. The site is scattered with remains of large statues which is assumed to be a royal tomb for the first century BC. It a wired and lonely attraction in Turkey, but to stand here and see all these remnants makes you wonder about this most peculiar archaeological sites.

Trabzon
Trabzon is a city that has inspired renowned travellers from the entire world. To name a few travellers which have been attracted by the city is Marco Polo, Evliya and Xenophon and many others. It’s a hub of natural and cultural riches, located on the historic and legendary Silk Road. And, today the city continues to be an important centre for trade and commerce!

Konya
The city is a pilgrimage destination for Sufi pilgrimages and one of Turkey’s most conservative cities. During the 13th and 14th century, it was the capital of the Seljuk Turks and that’s the reason it’s also one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities. Also, the city is known as turkey tourist spots for its famous buildings such as Mevlana Museum, Alaeddin Tepe and many others.

Oludeniz
The lagoon sits beside a lush green national park, its sandy beach cast away its shadows across the sea. It’s a resort village and has coastal views on the south-western turkey. So, if you are looking for an easy going day on the beach, there’s no better place than Oludeniz. If you are adventurous, try paragliding here, it one of the best things to do in Turkey.

Alanya Castle
The Alanya Castle is one of the main symbols of Alanya that stand over the Rocky Mountains in the middle of the city. It was first occupied by the pirates in the 3rd century, but later it was taken over and replaced into Roman and Byzantine fortifications. Now, it’s an open-air museum where you can see a great view of Cleopatra Beach and the walk the historical streets without charges.

Library of Celsus
The site is a striking structure that was built by the Romans, dedicated to Celsus  Polemaeanus, the governor of Ephesus. If you have a craze to take astonishing pictures, this is one of the best places to click photos. Although, the building was severely damaged by the earthquake, yet it still stands strong and facade of the building still remains.

Bodrum Museum of Underwater Archaeology
Built by the knights in 1402 and it’s now the rarest underwater archaeology museums in the world. It’s located in the Bordum castle, and hold treasures that have been excavated from the Turkish waters. The museum houses the oldest known shipwrecks in the world. There’s a wide collection of relics with ancient glassware, gold items, copperware etc. If you looking for things to do in Turkey, visit the Bodrum Museum of Underwater Archaeology!

Patara Beach
The beach is known for its shallow waters, and legends say it that its waters have healing powers. The sand dunes, the fragrant pines with turquoise sea dazzled under the sea is a perfect place for vacation. The beach is open on all sides which means that its stretches over 18km long. It has, therefore, become of Anatolia’s longest beach and many Turkish films have been shot in the Patara Beach.

Kaymakli Underground City
The Kaymakli Underground City is buried beneath the surface of Cappadocia, and it was built to protect the local population from the armies and invaders. It’s a multi-chambered that contains areas for living quarters, storage, stables and wine-making like many of its underground city sisters such as Ozkonak and Derinkuvu underground city.

Basilica Cistern
The historical site is one of the largest surviving cisterns in the country built in 532. It was reclaimed from finely carved capitals and ruined temples using 336 columns. It was designed to service the great palace as it lay under the Stoa Basilica. What’s so breathtaking about this site is the sheer and symmetry grandeur of misconception.

Church of Hagia Sophia
This Istanbul sight is also known as the Church of the holy wisdom or Church of the divine wisdom. It’s one of the world’s greatest monuments. Its 32 metres main dome with two semidomes on either side or the three aisles supported with great marbles and galleries rising to the dome are to be seen and discover!

Istanbul Archaeology Museum
The museum exhibits artistic treasures and archaeological sites including Istanbul’s history, classical statuary an ancient artefacts. There are many highlights too that are striking in nature like that Royal Necropolis of Sidon. There are three main parts like the Archaeology museum, Ancient Orient and the tiled pavilion.

Istiklal Avenue
Compared to the entire street like Fifth Street or Oxford Street, the Istikal is one of the best streets to experience in Istanbul. The long stretch street shows off its shops which have many products. Along the street, there are restaurants, cafes, bars, live music cafes, cinemas and many others. There are many things to do or see here such as the Flower passage, the Atlas Arcade etc.

Chora Church
It’s one of the best places to visit in Istanbul is the Chora Church as there are very few churches to see around the city. Originally, the building was known as the Church of the Holy Saviour Outside the walls. The church has witnessed many historical events right from the old city to the new Istanbul.

Istanbul Beaches
There are about twenty-plus beaches in Istanbul as the city is surrounded by many beaches. There are so many beaches that you can choose from the Istanbul beaches such as Dalia Beach, Golden Beach, True Blue Beach, Non-stop beach, Solar beach, Wattabe and many others. All these beaches are very close to the city, so you can pick the one which is closest to your hotel!

Miniaturk
Miniaturk Park will bring out the kid out of you; it’s one of the coolest attractions and best places to visit in Istanbul. Everything is so beautiful and well-structured; imagine seeing all of the attractions and iconic places from all over the country in one. And, best of all they are all miniature and you see in all the works and details done so well and have a closer look from above.

Istanbul Museum of Modern Art
The museum was opened in the year 2004 and it’s now beautifully structured. Although the prime purpose of the museum was to encourage the creation of modern art by Turkish artists, it also includes works by both Turkish as well as foreign artists. There’s also a very exquisite Contemporary museum next to the Istanbul Museum of Modern Art which mainly has Turkish art.

Maiden’s Tower
The Maiden's Tower, also known as Leander's Tower, it’s one of Istanbul Tourist Places as its Istanbul’s iconic landmark. The tower has a long history to it which dates back to the fourth century. The background of the tower is intriguing and it’s worth a visit. It doesn’t just end attracting visitors with its history, but it also been a subject of few legends.

Mosque of Suleiman
It's not one of the biggest of the Ottoman mosques, but it is certainly, one of the most exquisite in Istanbul. The mosque dominates the Golden Horn, by providing a landmark for the city. The name was picked up from its patron Suleyman, also known as ‘the magnificent.’ It’s a pleasant garden with a nice garden, a forecourt and fountains providing an aura of serenity.

Spice Market
It’s an eye candy market for spices lovers where vividly coloured spices lay in the shops. Though it’s named as the spice market, yet you can find more than other things apart from spices such as honey, nuts, local dried herbs, caviar and dried fruits. But again, the market still surprises you with gift shops where they have edible souvenirs!

Ethnography Museum of Ankara
This site is one of Ankara tourist attractions as it’s the only museum of ethnography in Turkey, and most of its relics are dedicated to the cultures of the Turks. Up until 1953, it served as Ataturk’s mausoleum and it was preserved in the entrance hall. The funeral photos of Ataturk are found all over the wall of this museum. There’s a huge collection of ethnography here such as Anatolian jewellery, henna ceremonies at the entrance of the museum along with an explanation on the wedding ceremony and bridal dresses.

Atakule
The tower is one of the most prominent landmarks in the city, and one of the best places to visit in Ankara. Located in central Ankara, stand above the skyline with a height of 410 feet. If you want to see the whole view of the city, you can dine at the revolving restaurant which has two restaurants and a cafe.

Kocatepe Mosque
Kocatepe Mosque is one of the largest mosques in the world having more than 24,000 devotees at a single time. During the day time, it’s become so visible from most parts of the city with its tires of domes and rising minarets. The construction of this religious place took over two centuries to complete it. Only when you get here can you explore for yourself the decisive look of the mosque is modern or contemporary.

Altinkoy Open Air Museum
To see Ankara sights and its village life, there no better place to immerse you other than Altinkoy Open Air Museum. The museum gives an interactive community field which makes it memorable for visitors of all ages. Whatever is associated with village life in the olden days, you will find it here such as old-time mosques, fountains, houses, outdoor cooking area and many others.

Genclik Park
The Park is located right in the heart of the city, and it’s one of the best places to spend an afternoon especially for families. There’s greenery everywhere here and it’s fresh and cool with a nice tea garden. The park is Middle Eastern in style and you will find many water fountains across the park. There is also fun thrill amusement for children and terrifying looking rides for teenagers.

State Art and Sculpture Museum
There’s a huge collection of art from the 19th century onwards displayed in the museum. It’s become the cornerstone of culture in Ankara due to the collection of contemporary arts. When you visit the museum, you can enjoy some of the world’s finest Turkish art and learn some of the biggest names in contemporary Turkish art.
Nepal
“Heaven is a myth, Nepal is real” - a saying that is undoubtedly justified in many ways. Unique, diverse, adventurous and impressively beautiful, Nepal is one of the landlocked countries surrounded by the Himalayas and sandwiched between the two national powers, India and China. Nepal, which was once an underrated tourism destination, is now rated amongst the top bucket list destinations for many travellers across the globe. While many are tempted by the trekking trails of the mighty Mount Everest, the others get fascinated by the surrounding visual treats of the Himalayas and quaint remote towns where the locals welcome you with their heart-warming ‘Namaste’ and a plate full of irresistible momos. There is no two-way discussion about it that the tourism to Nepal Attractions is progressively increasing and the country’s remote location has successfully managed to upkeep its culture that is widely unaffected from the influences to date. This is why the people who visit here term their experience as ‘oddly satisfying’, ‘mind calming’ and ‘never experienced before’. Most of the tourists are enticed by the trekking trails and lakeside beauty of Pokhara but nothing beats the charm of Nepal’s capital city Kathmandu. Set amidst the most dramatic landscape and arguably the land of unique sights and sounds, Kathmandu takes you on an astounding journey starting with the inviting smell of incense wafts from stores, moving through the backdrops of temples, various UNESCO Heritage sites and stupas and finally ending with innumerable memories to take home. The tourists flock to the city to mainly visit two of the most popular Kathmandu Attractions - Durbar Square and the Pashupatinath Mandir. But there is more beyond these marvels. The city is also famous for its Buddhist shrines like Boudhanath and Swayambhunath and even the trekkers find their knack for adventurous expeditions here. Want to know what’s more on Kathmandu’s platter of tourism offerings? Keep scrolling to grab your picks for the best places to visit in Kathmandu.  If you are planning an exhilarating trip to this beautiful country soon, take a look below at the Top Nepal Tourist Attractions that you must not miss.
Pashupatinath Temple


Boudha Stupa


Budhanilkantha


Swayambhunath Stupa


Kathmandu Durbar Square


Manakamana Temple


Chitwan National Park


Gupteshwor Mahadev Cave


Shree Bindhyabasini Temple


Gorkha Memorial Museum


Fewa Lake


Bhaktapur Durbar Square


Patan Darbar Square


Chandragiri Cable Car Top Station


Garden of Dreams


Poon Hill


International Mountain Museum


Phewa Lake


Hiranya Varna Mahavihar


Bardiya National Park


Devi's Fall, Pokhara


Janaki Mandir


Sagarmatha National Park


Begnas Lake


Narayanhiti Palace Museum


Tal Barahi Temple


Hanuman Dhoka


Langtang National Park


Patan Museum


Gokyo Lake


Koshi Tappu Wildlife Reserve


Shree Muktinath Temple


Annapurna Conservation Area


World Peace Pagoda


Shuklaphanta National Park


Maya Devi Temple


Krishna Mandir, Patan


Shivapuri Nagarjun National Park


Dakshinkali Temple


Nyatapola Temple


Kopan Monastery


Kailashnath Mahadev Statue


Manaslu


Mahendra Cave


Rara Lake


Tengboche Monastery


Tilicho Lake


Gosainkunda


Shey Phoksundo Lake


Makalu Barun National Park


Machhapuchhare

Kazakhstan
Being the ninth largest country in the world, Kazakhstan offers a collage full of surprises to its intrepid travellers. Still considered an off-beat destination by many, the country justifies why it is unique in every aspect-be it cultural, modern, historic or natural. The gorgeous vistas and endless steppes, vast deserts, arid yet picturesque plains, dramatic mountains, glacial lakes, tiny dusty villages, the glitzy, modern metropolitan vibe of Almaty or the cultural scenes at Nur Sultan- whatever you pick to explore, the Kazakhstan Attractions are bound to leave you awestruck at every turn you take! Starting your journey with the favourites, stroll around Almaty Attractions and you will feel this cultural heartbeat of Kazakhstan thriving on nothing but vibrancy. The Best Places to visit in Almaty feature the best of food scenes, nomadic architecture, soviet structures, the most modern buildings, wooden cathedrals and plenty of lakes, canyons and waterfalls. Go beyond Almaty and take in the magic from an assortment of other wonderful cities and various Best Places to visit in Kazakhstan.To explore these incredible attractions in Kazakhstan, you should know the ideal time to visit. There are four distinct seasons in Kazakhstan, each offering something for travelers to bask in. Spring season hosts a series of blooming lush green landscapes, pleasant weather, and wildflowers blooming in the steppes. With a slow cold breeze touching your face and cultural festivals going around, spring invites tourists for an ideal holiday in Kazakhstan.The summer season is perfect for all kinds of sightseeing and outdoor fun. It is the peak season in the country, which entails so many adventures to unfold. During this time, all the places to visit in Kazakhstan are crowded with travelers peering at every attraction in the country. There comes the winter season when the snow and ski lovers come out of their den. In winter, the temperature falls to -20 degrees Celsius, covering every landscape with fresh snow. There are plenty of white landscapes to capture and snow activities to revel in winter. It is also the time of New Year celebrations, making you witness Kazakhstan adorned with fairy lights.Autumn season is the most underrated season in Kazakhstan. However, it is actually one of the best times to visit Kazakhstan. You can enjoy peaceful walks, blue skies, beautiful sunsets, pristine lakes, tranquil landscapes, and other Kazakhstan tourist places. Autumn is the golden season when every vista turns golden with falling yellow leaves. There are various cultural events and natural attractions to explore during this time.No matter when you visit Kazakhstan, there are countless places to explore and unearth. These places brim with significant history, unique experiences, unparalleled landscapes, and culinary delights. Some must-visit tourist places to visit in Kazakhstan are Astana, Lake Kaindy, Almaty, Shymkent, Aktau, Baikonur, Turgen Gorge, and many more.All these places offer numerous things to do in Kazakhstan that you enjoy doing on a holiday. Be it exploring the cultural hub of Almaty, taking a sightseeing tour of ancient sites, hiking the Turgen Gorge, or visiting the breathtaking Lake Kaindy, Kazakhstan offers it all. Besides navigating the Kazakhstan attractions, you can visit stunning restaurants and bars that are no less than a captivating draw. Some of the popular names in the culinary world of Kazakhstan are Saksaul, Alasha, Tarih, Bellagio, Narsharab, and many more. The most tried cuisines in Kazakhstan are Kazy, Kuurdak, Laghman, Kurt, Besbarmaq, Tandyr Naan, etc.Ditch the usual tourist trail and take in all the grandeur of Kazakhstan Tourist Attractions and Places as the list compiled below showcases the country's marvels that are abundantly packed with cultural heritage, natural magnificence, rapid modern development and so much more.
First Presidents Park
First Presidents Park is an urban park located in Almaty at the intersection of Navoi Street and Al-Farabi Avenue in the Bostandyk district. The park was opened in July 2010 and was named after the first President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.

Almaty Zoo


Monument to Zhambyl Zhabayev


Astana Square Almaty


Republic Square
Republic Square also known as Independence Square or New Square is the main square in Almaty Kazakhstan. It is used for public events. The former presidential palace now used as municipal offices is on its south side.

Shymbulak Ski Resort
Shumbulak also known as Chimbulak is a ski resort near Almaty. It is the largest ski resort in Central Asia. It is located in the upper part of the Medeu Valley in the Zailiisky Alatau mountain range at an elevation of 2200 metres above sea level. The resort area is about 25 kilometres south of Almaty city by Medeo road. It is popular for its mild climate large quantity of sunny days and great amount of snow through the winter.

Park of 28 Panfilov Guardsmen
The Park of 28 Panfilov Guardsmen is an urban park located in east-central Almaty in the area surrounding the Ascension Cathedral. It is dedicated to and named after the Panfilov heroes which were the 28 soldiers of an Alma-Ata Infantry unit who allegedly died whilThe Park of 28 Panfilov Guardsmen is an urban park located in east-central Almaty in the area surrounding the Ascension Cathedral. It is dedicated to and named after the Panfilov heroes which were the 28 soldiers of an Alma-Ata Infantry unit who allegedly died while defending Moscow from the German invasion during the Great Patriotic War. The group took its name from Ivan Panfilov the General commanding the 316th division which in spite of heavy casualties believed at that time managed to significantly delay the Germans advance to Moscow thus buying the time for the defenders of the city. An eternal flame commemorating the fallen of the World War II and the Great Patriotic War burns in front of the giant black monument of soldiers from all 15 Soviet republics.

Medeo
The Medeu is a high-altitude sports complex near Almaty located at an altitude of 1691 meters above sea level. It is considered to be the worlds largest high-mountain skating rink. The skating rink was named after the Maloalmatinsky volost Medeu Pusurmanov. He built three wooden huts for the wintering of his family there and began the development of the tract in the foothills of the Zailiysky Alatau. Medeu became a well-known entrepreneur patron of educational institutions and participated in the planting of the city.

Rakhat Candy Factory


Zelenyy Bazar


Astana Square
Astana Square or Old Square is a city square in Almaty Kazakhstan. It is the second largest square in Kazakhstan after Republic Square. It hosts many public events concerts and ceremonies. The square is in front of the Kazakh-British Technical University the monument of Aliya Moldagulova and Manshuk Mametova and is on the left side of the Panfilov Street Promenade. The square used to be named after Vladimir Lenin and a statue of him stood in the center of the square until 1991.

Panfilov Park
The Park of 28 Panfilov Guardsmen is located in east-central Almaty in the area surrounding the Zenkov Cathedral. It is dedicated to and named after the Panfilov heroes which were the 28 soldiers of an Almaty infantry unit who died while defending Moscow from the German invasion during theGreat Patriotic War.

Abai Square and Palace of Republic
Palace of the Republic is a concert hall building located in Almaty Kazakhstan. It is intended for concerts festivals and other cultural events. It was one of the premiere sites for the Eurasia film festival. Outside with the fountains on the square in front of the Palace and the monument of the Kazakh poet Abai  Palace of the Republic is one of the main known attractions of Almaty from the Kunaev era. The building is located at the cross road section of Prospekt Dostyk and Abai Avenue. It is considered as a monument based on an urban planning and architecture since January 26 1982.

Rakhat Candy Factory Almaty
Rakhat JSC is one of the largest chocolate factories in Kazakhstan. The factory is located in the city of Almaty on the Zenkov Street.

Zelenyy Bazar Almaty
High-roofed indoor farmers market lined with stalls & tables selling meat vegetables & dry fruits.

Big Almaty Lake
Big Almaty Lake, at a height of 2,511 mts. and 1.6 kms long, is situated in the Tien Shan mountains. The maximum level of its captivating blue waters is in August; the minimum being February. Take an arranged trip to the stunningly beautiful Big Lake of Almaty, about 20 Kms drive from Almaty city. Like majority of lakes in Trans-Ili Alatau, this lake occured as a result of an earthquake

Ile-Alatau National Park
Ile-Alatau National Park is a national park in Kazakhstan. It was created in 1996 and covers about 200000 ha. It is situated in the mountains south of Almaty between Gorge Turgen in the east and Chemolgan River in the west. The National Park borders Almaty Nature Reserve which is located around Pik Talgar. The landscape includes woodlands alpine meadows glaciers and lakes including Big Almaty Lake. Remarkable trees include apricot maple and apple. A total of 300 species of birds and animals have been recorded from the Ile-Alatau National Park. The park is home to snow leopards Central Asian lynx Tian Shan brown bears Central Asian stone martens Siberian ibexes bearded vultures and golden eagles. Other notable bird species found in Ile-Alatau National Park include Himalayan snowcock ibisbill Eurasian scops owl and Eurasian three-toed woodpecker.

Monument of Independence
The Golden Warrior Monument also known as the Golden Man Statue or the Statue of the Golden Warrior stands on Republic Square in the former capital of Kazakhstan Almaty. The monument celebrates the independence of Kazakhstan the identity of its people and the role of the city of Almaty as capital of Kazakhstan until 1997 when the capital moved to Astana.

Lake Issyk
The Lake Issyk also known as Issyk Lake is a lake in Kazakhstan fed by the Issyk River. It should not be confused with the Issyk-Kul Lake in neighboring Kyrgyzstan.The Lake Issyk also known as Issyk Lake is a lake in Kazakhstan fed by the Issyk River. It should not be confused with the Issyk-Kul Lake in neighboring Kyrgyzstan.

Presidential Palace


Presidential Residence
Republic Square also known as Independence Square or New Square is the main square in Almaty Kazakhstan. It is used for public events. The former presidential palace now used as municipal offices is on its south side.

Arbat


Silk Way


Family Park


Baiterek Tower
Baiterek Tower is a monument and observation tower in Astana, the capital city of Kazakhstan. It is quite popular among foreign tourists in Astana. On your Kazakhstan Tour when you land in Astana then you can see Bayterek tower which is meant to embody a folktale. The folktale is about a mythical tree of life and a magic bird of happiness. This is 105 m tall consists of a narrow cylindrical shaft, surrounded by white branch-like girders that flare out near the top, supporting a gold-mirrored 22 m diameter sphere. The tower has two levels and you can see 360 degree view from level one.

Ak Orda Presidential Palace
The Ak Orda Presidential Palace is the official workplace of the President of Kazakhstan located in the capital city of Nur-Sultan. Akorda Presidential Palace was built within three years and officially opened in 2004. It was built by the Mabetex GrouThe Ak Orda Presidential Palace is the official workplace of the President of Kazakhstan located in the capital city of Nur-Sultan. Akorda Presidential Palace was built within three years and officially opened in 2004. It was built by the Mabetex Group founded by Behgjet Pacolli 3rd President of Kosovo and 1st Deputy Prime Minister of Kosovo.

Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan


Supreme court of the Republic of Kazakhstan


Kazakhstan Central Concert Hall


Nur-Astana mosque
Nur Astana Mosque is a famous site in Astana city in Kazakhstan. This is the second largest mosque in Kazakhstan and in Central Asia after Hazrat Sultan Mosque. The 40-meter height symbolizes the age of the Prophet Muhammad of when he received the revelations, and the height of the minarets are 63 meters, the age Muhammad was when he died

Monument Kazakh Eli


Kazakh National University of the Arts


Palace of Independence


Palace of Peace and Reconciliation
The Palace of Peace and Reconciliation, also translated as the Pyramid of Peace and Accord, is a 62-metre-high pyramid in Nur-Sultan, the capital of Kazakhstan, that serves as a non-denominational national spiritual centre and an event venue.

National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan
The National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the youngest and largest museum in Central Asia, located in Astana. The museum opened on July 2, 2014 in a 74,000 square meter building. The largest unique museum complex consists of seven blocks with a variable number of storeys to the ninth floor. Exhibit space occupies 14 rooms with a total area of over 14,000 sq.m. The National Museum of Kazakhstan is composed of the following halls: Hall of Astana, Hall of Independent Kazakhstan, Hall of Gold, Hall of Ancient and Medieval History, the Hall of History, Ethnography Hall, Halls of Modern Art.

Astana Opera


Kenesary Khan


Assumption Cathedral


Borovoye
Burabay is one prominent lake of a group of lakes that share the same name in northern Kazakhstan, located in the Burabay District of Akmola Region, in the eastern foothills of Mount Kokshe.

Zhumbaktas


Expo


Khan Shatyr Entertainment Center


Dolphinarium Nemo
Dolphinarium Nemo - Located in Almaty, Dolphinarium Nemo is a must-visit entertainment show for all ages. The dolphins do many impressive tricks, help spectators to real fun

Kok Tobe
Kok Tobe is a mountain in Almaty Kazakhstans largest city. There is a popular recreation area on top of the mountain. The mountains height is 1100 meters above sea level. Kok Tobe is one of the main landmarks in the city and it is popular among visiKok Tobe is a mountain in Almaty Kazakhstans largest city. There is a popular recreation area on top of the mountain. The mountains height is 1100 meters above sea level. Kok Tobe is one of the main landmarks in the city and it is popular among visitors and tourists to Almaty.

Shooting club named after A. Asanov
Asanov Shooting Club - Around 25km outside Almaty on the way to Kapchagai is the Asanov Shooting Club, named after champion Kazakhstani marksman Alexander Asanov. Here it’s possible to shoot clay pigeons (skeet), with prices starting at 5,000 KZT for 25 shots, gun hire and a (Russian-speaking) instructor. The club also organises luxury corporate entertainment and stages shooting displays and contests

Mega Mall


Central Park


Almaty Central Park


Almaty Tower
The Almaty Television Tower or simply Almaty Tower is a 371.5-metre-high steel television tower built between 1975 and 1983 in Almaty Kazakhstan. The tower is located on high slopes of Kok Tobe mountain south-east of downtown Almaty. Unlike other similar TV towers it is not a concrete but a steel tubular structure. It is the tallest free-standing tubular steel structure in the world.

Nursultan Nazarbayev International Airport


Cathedral of Our Mother of Perpetual Help


Duman Aqua Park(Duman entertainment center))
Duman is a modern leisure centre most worth visiting for its oceanarium which has over 3000 creatures from the worlds oceans and a 70m shark tunnel. Theres also the Exotarium where visitors come face to face with exotic reptiles and the Jungle full of dinosaur models.

Almaty International Airport


Trans-Ili Alatau
Ile Alatau also spelt as Trans-Ili Alatau is a part of the Northern Tian Shan mountain system in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan. It is the northernmost mountain range of Tian Shan stretching for about 350 km with a maximal elevation of 4973 m. The term Alatau refers to a kind of mountain. The range is bounded from the north by the Ili Depression of the Ili River hence the name.

Zelenyy Bazar


Central Mosque Almaty
Almaty Central Mosque is one of the largest mosques in Almaty and in Kazakhstan. Designed for 7000 worshippers it was built on the site of the old mosque that dated to 1890 and caught fire in 1987. The mosque has a capacity of up to 3000 people. The south-western part of the structure is turned towards Mecca. In the southwestern part you can see an excellent pentahedral mihrab that stands out from the entire structure. Minarets are located in the corners of the building the domes of which are covered with real gold.

Republican Museum of the Book
Republican Museum of the Book is located in Almaty Kazakhstan. Opening of the Book Museum was held on 20 October 1978. The museum has over 60000 exhibits including 5000 manuscripts and early printed books in different ages and nations.

Charyn Canyon
Often termed as the Grand Canyon's little brother, the Charyn Canyon is located in the Charyn National Park about 215km east of Almaty and approximately a 3 hour drive from Almaty. Formed 3 million years ago, it has a valley called 'Valley of Castles' about 2 kms across named so due to pillars and rock formations that look as if its man-made.

Sunkar International Ski Jumping Complex
Sunkar International complex is a ski jumping venue in the southern part of Almaty, Kazakhstan. This Ski Jumping complex in Almaty sits at an altitude of 900m above sea level. The complex was built in 2010 replacing an old Goreny Gigant ski jumping complex as Almaty and Astana hosted 2011 Asian Winter Games. The very uniqueness of Sunkar International Ski jumping complex is that it is located in a place where there is almost no wind. By 2013 five competition hills here got ready and all these five hills are equipped with plastic mattings and hosting Grand Prix events in summer. The spectator capacity here is around 9500 and both artificial turf and snow can be used here in all season.

Central Mosque
Kazakhstan is a country of Mosques as there are more than 2300 mosques. Out of those over 2300 mosques there is one probably the largest and most beautiful mosque, called Central Mosque of Almaty. This mosque is relatively new built in 1999. It is a magnificent building which has been made in Timurid style of architecture. The mosque was completed in 1999 only but with its Turkish calligraphy, domes and minarets it looks ancient. It has huge space as it can accommodate around 7000 worshipers at a time. The beautiful building of the mosque is built with marbles and colored tiles. It is crowned with a blue dome which has diameter of 20 m and has a height of 36 m. Construction of the building started in 1993 and it took 6 years to complete the building.

Zenkov Cathedral
Zenkov Cathedral of Holy Ascension which is also known as Svyato-Voznesensky cathedral is over a century old cathedral and is unique because it is made completely of woods. This cathedral is unique because it is probably only cathedral in the world which is made of wooden completely. Another uniqueness of the cathedral is that it is built without using any nails. Yet another uniqueness of the cathedral is that it has survived major earthquake in the region which is attributed to the architect quality of the cathedral. This cathedral has five domes and three aisles with a built in bell tower is among the top 8 highest buildings of the world which are completely wooden made. Interior of the church was also worked by famous and brilliant Russian artist and painter N.G. Khludov.

Abay Opera House
Abai's Theatre was built in Almaty in 1934. It was named after Kazakh poet, composer and philosopher Abay Qunanbayuli. Founder and first director - Yevgeny Brusilovsky, who created eight national operas and a ballet. Over forty western and Kazakh pieces are performed, including operas, ballets and classical music performances.

Korgalzhyn Nature Reserve
In the very heart of Kazakhstan, 130 KM drive from Astana you come close to a place where you may see Pink flamingos, pelicans and several other beautiful species of birds. This is Korgalzhyn Nature Reserve situated in the north central part of Kazakhstan. The entire zone of Korgalzhyn is a mix of fresh waters and saline lakes embedded in dry steppe zone of Eurasia. Kazakhstan has lot of National Parks/reserves and Korgalzhyn is the largest preserved zone in Kazakhstan.

The Intimate Ruins of Sauran
The Intimate Ruins of Sauran is located a little away from highway from Turkestan to Kyzyl Orda in South Kazakhstan. Sauran is a place for adventurers. Once one of the biggest city in Kazakhstan, Sauran is today known as romantic ruin remains. Ruins of Sauran will catch you with its old and beautiful charm. If you love to explore less explored and far off places this intimate ruins of Sauran in Kazakhstan should be must see place on your travel destination list.

Kazakh Steppe
Kazakh steppe is a part of Great steppe or Eurasian steppe. This is also called Great Dala. It is a vast open grassland in northern part of Kazakhstan and adjacent parts of Russia. The steppe extends to Pontic steppe and Emin Valley steppe thus forming part of the Eurasian steppe. The vastness of Kazakh steppe can be observed by the fact that it almost covers one third of Kazakhstan’s total territory and if measured it extends to more than 2200 KM and covers more than 804,500 Sq.KM. Kazakh steppe is the largest dry steppe in the world and is semi desert and in parts fully desert.

Mausoleum of Khoja Ahmed Yasawi
This is an unfinished Mausoleum in Turkestan in southern Kazakhstan. Structure was made in 1389 by Timur and construction was halted in 1405 because of death of Timur. Since then it has remained unfinished Mausoleum and survived till date. The Mausoleum is made of distinctive art of that time. Mausoleum of Khoja Ahmed Yasawi attracts lot of religious pilgrimage from across Central Asia and so has become Kazakh national identity.

Tamgaly
Tamgaly is a petroglyph site in the Zhetysu of Kazakhstan. Petroglyph is basically a rock art in which images are created by removing part of a rock surface by incising, picking, carving, or abrading. It is located 170 km northwest of Almaty. This beautiful landscape of Tamgaly features over 5000 marvellous petroglyphs coming from the bronze age. They are large in size with unique images and of high quality of iconography. Tamgaly became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2004.

Medeo Gorge
The Medeo is an outdoor speed skating and bandy rink. It is located in a mountain valley (Medeo Valley) on the south-eastern outskirts of Almaty, Kazakhstan. Medeo sits 1,691 metres above sea level, making it the highest skating rink in the world. It has 10.5 thousand square meters of ice and utilizes a sophisticated freezing and watering system to ensure the quality of the ice

Falcon Show
Discover Kazakh nomadic hunting, an ancient survival method of Kazakhstan in the extremities of harsh climate and terrains over centuries. Witness jaw-dropping maneuvers of hunting falcons trained by Kazakh nomads. In Kazakhstan falconry has been of two kinds in general. One is hunting with birds of prey and another is hunting with eagles. Kazakh people have hunted with eagles for centuries and now this old practice is being revived as competitive sport in the country

Trip to Charyn Canyon
Often termed as the Grand Canyon's little brother, the Charyn Canyon is located in the Charyn National Park about 215km east of Almaty and approximately a 3 hour drive from Almaty. Formed 3 million years ago, it has a valley called 'Valley of Castles' about 2 kms across named so due to pillars and rock formations that look as if its man-made.

Rakhat Chocolate Factory
It is the biggest chocolate manufacturer of Kazakhstan since 1942. You can purchase mouth-watering Rakhat chocolates by the kilos. Hundreds of mouth-watering flavours of chocolates are available including low-calorie chocolates at unbelievable prices!

President’s Cultural Center
Astana has lot of beautiful sights for a traveler to visit. One among them is President’s Cultural Center. This is a museum which displays the history of Kazakhstan. It displays ancient and modern history of Astana and achievements of its president. It is a blue domed building with vertical blue panels surrounding the dome. This building has a museum which houses around 143, 000 artifacts and a library with 700,000 items. The moment you enter the center you see floor with elaborate tiling, and columns around it adorned with blue panels. These blue panels have gold writing in Kazakh. History of Kazakhstan can be seen on the first floor. President’s Cultural center has museums, library, concert and exhibition halls. The designs and symbols here in the building are all beautiful and worth watching. The museum has items of archaeology, ethnography, history and current arts

Aquarium of Duman Entertainment Complex
There are only few aquariums to make it to the list of largest aquarium in the world. These aquariums can hold even whale sharks. One such aquarium is in entertainment centre ‘Duman‘, Astana in Kazakhstan. Duman is an entertainment complex that house an aquarium, a 5D cinema and many other entertainment options. This aquarium at Duman is the only aquarium in the world which is over 3000 km away from ocean. More than 2,000 of sea inhabitants, the representatives of 100 species of sea fauna from different parts of the world, live there. This is definitely a place to be at. Duman adds to the ‘Must see’ places list of every tourist when he is in Astana.

Taraz City
Taraz city is one of the oldest cities in Kazakhstan. Taraz is ancient but Taraz is modern too. Today It is a beautiful mix of ancient and modern touch. It is one of the fastest growing cities in Kazakhstan after Astana. The age of Taraz is like this. The city celebrated its 2000th anniversary in 2001. Between the old and modern Tarza is a beautiful destination for travelers. In the medieval time Talas (Taraz) was a major trade center on the Silk Road. Located on the Talas or Taraz river in south of Kazakhstan bordering with Kyrgyzstan, Taraz has population of over 3, 00,000. The city has a lot to offer to the visitors

Saryarka
Saryarka is a Natural World Heritage Site in Kazakhstan. Saryarka - Steppe and Lakes of Northern Kazakhstan is a part of the Kazakh Uplands which has been designated a world heritage site by UNESCO. It was inscribed on July 7, 2008 and is only natural site in Kazakhstan listed as UNESCO world heritage site. The site comprises the Naurzum State Nature Reserve and Korgalzhyn State Nature Reserve. Saryarka is home to many wildlife and people also come here for bird-watching.
Japan
Stepping into the mysteriously beautiful Japan feels like taking your first step into the realm of endless discoveries. Famed as the ‘Land of the Rising Sun’, this country is a surprising combination of the old and new, harmony and chaos, high-tech, fast-growing cities and laid-back landscapes, great food and festivities. Add to it the right amount of eccentricity and you are bound to come back for more! Apart from its cultural identity and historic importance kept intact in the generous amount of Shinto shrines and temples sprinkled across the country, Japan’s natural marvels are incredibly diverse too and worth a special mention. From the serene beaches of Okinawa to the wilderness in Hokkaido, from the raw and snowy beauty of Mt. Fuji to serene zen gardens sandwiched between the present-time hi-tech settings, from the Arashiyama Bamboo Forest to the world’s most beautiful waterfalls, there is an abundance of naturally blessed places to visit in Japan that must be on your travel itinerary. While most people like to kick off their travelling adventure in the famous Japan Attractions like Osaka or Tokyo, the other few take the road less travelled and visit the historic cities of Kyoto and Nara or the naturally rich Nikkō and Yoshinoyama. But nothing beats the appeal of its capital Tokyo and its chaotic, vibrant and overwhelming city vibes.Representing the perfect metaphor for a great sci-fi movie, Tokyo is the country’s beating vibrant heart and one of the world’s most populous cities with a sea of skyscrapers lit bright, multi-coloured streets and establishments. Always packed with tourists and locals alike, the city offers a plethora of opportunities to see, eat, shop and explore, proving why every Japan trip ever starts with Tokyo. The history lovers find themselves busy exploring the corky museums, grand temples and shrines while the modern-day travellers find their portion of fun in the modern and futuristic Tokyo Attractions that resemble the streetscapes of a Blade Runner movie. Spare your quality time to see the unmissable places to visit in Tokyo, a few of which include the city’s gaming district- Akihabara, Meiji Shrine, Senso-Ji Temple, Ueno Park, known for cherry blossom viewing in Spring, Tokyo Tower and Tokyo Disneyland. Also, don't think about visiting Japan and not trying the street food in Tokyo or not enjoying a Tokyo pub crawl where you will be delighted to try some of the most interesting retro beverages. These are just a few reasons why to see Tokyo during your Japan trip but the list of travel experiences is endless. Plan your trip to Japan as soon as possible because here, you are in for a spectacular treat! Read on to discover the Top Japan Tourist Attractions and also filter out your favourites from the list of ‘must-visit’ Tokyo Tourist Attractions.
Yamashita Park


The Royal Park Hotel Tokyo Shiodome


Palette Town


Toyota City Museum of Local History


VenusFort


Rainbow Bridge


Senso-ji


Shinjuku Garden House


Lake Ashi


Atomic Bomb Dome


Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum


Peace Park


The Deer Park Inn


Todaiji Temple Shosoin Temple treasure house


Kinkaku-ji


Nijo Castle


Kiyomizu-dera


Tokyo Imperial Palace
The Tokyo Imperial Palace is the main residence of the Emperor of Japan. It is a large park-like area located in the Chiyoda district of the Chiyoda ward of Tokyo and contains several buildings including the Fukiage Palace where the Emperor has his living quarters the main palace where various ceremonies and receptions take place some residences of the Imperial Family an archive museums and administrative offices.

TeamLab Planets TOKYO
TeamLab Planets TOKYO DMM.com is an art facility that utilizes digital technology and was established by teamLab and DMM.com. It is located in 6-chrome Toyosu Koto-ku Tokyo. DMM. Planets Art by teamLab held in Odaiba in 2016 has been scaled up and will open in Shin-Toyosu from July 7 2018 until the end of 2020. It is composed of a total of eight artworks by teamLab centered on four huge workspaces. By immersing the entire body with other people in these massive Body Immersive artworks the boundary between the body and the artwork dissolves the boundaries between the self others and the world become something continuous and we explore a new relationship without boundaries between ourselves and the world.

Ueno Park
Ueno Park is a spacious public park in the Ueno district of Taito Tokyo Japan. The park was established in 1873 on lands formerly belonging to the temple of Kanei-ji. Amongst the countrys first public parks it was founded following the western example as part of the borrowing and assimilation of international practices that characterizes the early Meiji period. The home of a number of major museums Ueno Park is also celebrated in spring for its cherry blossoms and hanami. In recent times the park and its attractions have drawn over ten million visitors a year making it Japans most popular city park.

Fushimi Inari Taisha


Meiji Jingu


Himeji Castle


Shinjuku Gyoen National Garden


Nara Park


Nikkō Tōshō-gū


Dotonbori


Kenroku-en


Osaka Castle


Tokyo Skytree


The Hakone Open-Air Museum


Itsukushima Shrine


Mount Fuji


Okinawa Churaumi Aquarium


Matsumoto Castle


Snow Monkey Park


Imperial Palace


Sankeien Garden


kōtoku-in


Uminonakamichi Seaside Park


Ghibli Museum


Ise Grand Shrine


Rengeoin Sanjusangendo


Shurijo Castle


Shinjuku Golden Gai


Nasu Animal Kingdom


Moerenuma Park


Kobe Nunobiki Herb Gardens


Lake Kawaguchi


Shin-Yokohama Ramen Museum


Ryogoku Kokugikan National Sumo Arena


Kegon Falls

South Korea
South Korea is an elusive and exotic land that offers many wonders. There’s much more to see besides South Korea’s dazzling capital, Seoul. You will be jumbled while selecting the best places to visit in South Korea because there are not one or two but many. South Korea has many unbelievable places to explore, whether natural sights or urban delights. South Korea sways every tourist's heart with its charm, from traditional folk villages to vibrant cities to breathtaking islands and spectacular natural vistas. South Korea Attractions range from Seoul to Busan to Jeju Island, Suwon to Chuncheon to Jeonju, and many more. The list goes on. You need more than a few days to explore the whole of South Korea and its mind-blowing attractions. South Korea is home to various traditions that the people of Korea have kept alive throughout the centuries. It’s not unusual to find South Korean people wearing traditional clothes and watching them perform Korean dance to typical Korean music. One of the main reasons people visit South Korea is its year-round festivals. They are one of the South Korea tourist attractions. As the snow melts and spring begins to bloom, many tourists visit South Korea to see the pink and white cherry blossoms. Among the delightful attractions, one of the most beautiful places to visit in South Korea is its quiet countryside. Besides, tempting South Korean food is everyone’s favorite. And that counts as one of the main reasons why tourists love this country so much. Keeping aside South Korea’s historic landmarks, its futuristic modernity is one of the top things that attract many tourists. Seoul, the largest city in South Korea, is a major tourist attraction in South Korea. There are many places to see in Seoul, which includes Bukchon Hanok Traditional Village, the National Museum of Korea, Lotte World Tower, Gyeongbokgung Palace, and more. If you are visiting Seoul, don’t forget to stop by Suwon. It is another top South Korea tourist attraction that is breathtakingly beautiful. The beach lover in you may believe that there are no beaches in South Korea, but wait. Don’t let your brain trick you into that thinking. Because Busan, the second largest city in South Korea, has beautiful coastlines. There are some pretty-looking beaches and resorts for tourists. And if you are in Busan, don’t forget to visit the Beomeosa Temple and Gamecheon. If you wish to experience the Korean version of Santorini, you must visit Gamecheon. It is one of the famous South Korea tourist spots. If you are missing mountains, lakes, and waterfalls, head straight to Seoraksan National Park. It is a small wonder of South Korea. Hallyeo Maritime, a graceful national park, has raw coastlines on over 300 islands. Each of them has thrilling hiking trails with incredible ocean and cliff views. It also has a cable car, known as Hallyeosudo Viewing Ropeway, which makes it one of the best South Korea tourist places. While riding in this cable car, you will be rewarded with impressive views of the countryside and coastlines. As we have told you, there are countless places to visit in South Korea that will give you an unforgettable experience. From the National folk museum of Korea to Haeundae beach to Haedong Yonggung temple to Nami Island to Donggung Palace and more, South Korea offers endless options to tourists. You can be a part of the South Korean trail by following up with our travel experts to leverage our enticing tour packages.
Gyeongbokgung Palace


The National Folk Museum of Korea
National Folk Museum of Korea is a national museum of South Korea, located within the grounds of the Gyeongbokgung Palace in Jongno-gu, Seoul. It uses replicas of historical objects to illustrate the history of traditional life of the Korean people.

Coex Aquarium


Gyeongbokgung Palace


Jongno in Joseon Dynasty Well


National Museum of Korea


War Memorial of Korea


N Seoul Tower


Jeju Folklore and Natural History Museum


Bulguksa


Seokguram(Grotto)


Diamond Tower (Busan Tower)


Gwangan Bridge


Hallasan


Gwangchigi Beach


Haeundae Beach


Bukchon Hanok Village


Cheonggyecheon


Nami Island


Petite France


Imjingak-ro


Suwon Hwaseong Fortress, Gyeonggi-do


Hahoe Folk Village


Wol-Yeong-Gyo


Dosan Seowon


Bulguksa temple


Lotte World


Seoraksan Sinheungsa Temple


Seoraksan National Park


Haedong Yonggung Temple


Dongdaemun Design Plaza


Haeinsa


Jogyesa


Naejangsan National Park


Donggung Palace & Wolji Pond


Cheomseongdae


Jeongbang Waterfall


Seoul Forest Park


Haneul Park


Seoul Grand Park


Seopjikoji


Hyeopjae Beach


Gwanghwamun Square


Korean Folk Village


Hwaseong Haenggung


Songdo Central Park


Seongsan Ilchulbong


Gwangjang Market


Olympic Park seoul


Daereungwon Tomb Complex


Manjanggul Cave


Starfield Library


Osulloc Tea Museum

Bhutan
Banking on its agenda of “High value, Low volume” tourism, the Himalayan paradise Bhutan is one majestic country whose charm is too hard to resist. This small Asian country has made a huge mark on the world tourism map and is, therefore, considered as one of the most preferred bucket-list destinations across the globe. What makes the places to visit in Bhutan most treasured for tourists is their strong reverence towards nature, cultural preservation and sustainability. Arresting postcard landscapes, unparalleled spiritual aura, remoteness of the destination, ancient dzongs, hill-top monasteries, crisp fresh mountain air, formidable trekking trails and a network of swift rivers- Bhutan is unarguably the land where peace of mind, happiness and exclusivity intermingle beautifully. Although Bhutan Attractions like the surreal Paro, sacred Punakha and Gangtey have always caught the tourist’s attention, Thimphu, its modern yet traditional capital has consistently topped the bucket lists. Being one of the most intriguing destinations in Bhutan and also the one which is culturally and naturally blessed, Thimphu’s growth on the tourism index has been worth mentioning. Each of Thimphu Tourist Attractions contributes to the endless scopes of exploration in the city. Whether you are visiting the Folk Heritage Museum, Jungshi Paper Factory, marvelling at the scenic beauty of Druk Wangyal Chorten and Buddha Dordenma Statue, strolling across the Centenary Farmers Market, hitting the nightclubs, doing the mask dance at Tshechu or spotting the national animal at Motithang Takin Preserve, you will be in for non stop excitement while discovering the incredible Thimphu Attractions.  We bring you an inch closer to this ‘Land of Happiness’ and familiarize you with the Top Bhutan Tourist Attractions including the best places to visit in Thimphu that are sure to keep you hooked and happy. Because every minute of travelling in Bhutan leaves you with memories that last a lifetime!
Buddha Dordenma
Great Buddha Dordenma is a gigantic Shakyamuni Buddha statue in the mountains of Bhutan celebrating the 60th anniversary of fourth king Jigme Singye Wangchuck.

National Museum of Bhutan
National Museum of Bhutan is a cultural museum in the town of Paro in western Bhutan. Established in 1968 in the renovated ancient Ta-dzong building above Rinpung Dzong under the command of His Majesty the King Jigme Dorji Wangchuck the third hereditary Monarch of Bhutan.

Taktsang Monastery
Paro Taktsang is a prominent Himalayan Buddhist sacred site and temple complex located in the cliffside of the upper Paro valley in Bhutan. A temple complex was first built in 1692 around the Taktsang Senge Samdup cave where Guru Padmasambhava is said to have meditated for Four Months in the 8th century.

Paro International Airport


National Memorial Chhorten Thimphu
The Memorial Stupa Thimphu also known as the Thimphu Chorten is a stupa in Thimphu Bhutan located on Doeboom Lam in the southern-central part of the city near the main roundabout and Indian military hospital.

Changangkha Lhakhang
Changangkha Lhakhang is one of the oldest Lhakhang in Thimphu and its a wish-fulfilling temple. It is situated in a small hill .

Punakha Dzong
- built in 1637 by Zhabdrung Ngawang Namgyal. For many years until the time of the second king it served as the seat of the Government. The Dzong was named Druk Pungthang Dechen Phodrang (Palace of Great Happiness). Punakha is still the winter residence of Je-Khenpo and King Jigme Dorji Wangchuck convened the first National Assembly here in 1952.

Semtokha Dzong


Buddhist University


Tashichho Dzong
Tashichhoedzong is a Buddhist monastery and fortress on the northern edge of the city of Thimphu in Bhutan on the western bank of the Wang Chu.

Royal Takin Preserve
Motithang Takin Preserve located in the Motithang district of Thimphu Bhutan is a wildlife reserve area for takin the national animal of Bhutan. Originally a mini-zoo it was converted into a preserve when it was discovered that the animals refrained from inhabiting the surrounding forest even when set free.

Trongsa Dzong
It was the seat of power over central & eastern BhutanTrongsa previously Tongsa is a Thromde or town and the capital of Trongsa District in central Bhutan

Folk Heritage Museum Kawajangsa
The Folk Heritage Museum or Phelchey Toenkhyim is a museum in Thimphu Thimphu District Bhutan

Chendebji Chorten
built in the style of the great Bodhanath Choten of Nepal.Chendebji Chorten is a stupa in Bhutan located 41 kilometres west of Trongsa at 2430 metres in elevation. According to legend Chendebji Chten covers the body of an evil spirit. Chendebji Chorten is constructed in the style of Nepalese stupas such as Boudhanath
Egypt
Once renowned as the cradle of civilization and a mystical home to ancient Pharaohs, Egypt is one of the oldest and most exotic countries in the world. Thriving along the fertile Nile River while well-preserving its historic treasures, the country has today evolved into a diverse tourism hotspot. Thanks to Red Coast’s world-class coral reefs and wrecks for divers, the iconic pyramids, temples and tombs, vast tracts of desert and its modern cities that add a pinch of special charm to this incredible country. Whether the beach bums are opting for Sinai to either lounge under the sun or engage in refreshing water sports, the archaeology fanatics are digging in for curious findings in Luxor or the party lovers are indulging in the intoxicating extravaganza of Cairo, there is an abundance of places to visit in Egypt that have been attracting the serious vacationers from far and wide. Giving a powerful punch to these stunning destinations are Siwa oasis and the southern town of Aswan, the other two key Egypt Tourist Attractions that are too good to miss! A true tribute to Egypt’s mysterious splendour is its capital city Cairo which is quite remarkable, especially in terms of strikingly bright architecture that has been standing intact with all the glitz for centuries. Travellers who step in to experience the magic of Cairo are often left awestruck with the fascinating sights of the Giza Pyramids and gleaming Nile River. The places to visit in Cairo are nothing short of magnificence; each step you take through its labyrinth of alleyways is like taking up a unique adventure that is hard to experience elsewhere. Gape in awe at the raw beauty of Pyramids of Giza, take a stroll in the streets of Old Cairo, visit the tiny shops at Khan el-Khalili to purchase authentic Egyptian products, explore the antique stores of Zamalek or soak in the exquisiteness of mosques and museums- whatever you choose, the Cairo Attractions are sure to leave you entranced. With plenty to see, do and experience in Egypt, the country offers visitors a rendezvous with all things magical. Confused about what all Egypt Attractions should be added to your itinerary? We help you decode the topmost Egypt Tourist Places along with some of the best in the list of Cairo Tourist Attractions.
Holy Family Catholic Church


Egyptian Museum of Antiquities
The Egyptian Museum of Antiquities contains many important pieces of ancient Egyptian history. It houses the worlds largest collection of Pharaonic antiquities.

Great Sphinx of Giza
The Great Sphinx of Giza commonly referred to as the Sphinx of Giza or just the Sphinx is a limestone statue of a reclining sphinx a mythical creature with the body of a lion and the head of a human. Facing directly from West to East it stands on the Giza Plateau on the west bank of the Nile in Giza Egypt

Citadel of Qaitbay


Alexandria National Museum


Serapeum and Pompey's Pillar


Bibliotheca Alexandrina


Temple of Kom Ombo


Edfu Temple Ticket Office


Temple of Khnum


Valley of the Kings
The Valley of the Kings also known as the Valley of the Gates of the Kings is a valley in Egypt where for a period of nearly 500 years from the 16th to 11th century BC rock-cut tombs were excavated for the pharaohs and powerful nobles of the New Kingdom.

Luxor Temple
Luxor Temple is a large Ancient Egyptian temple complex located on the east bank of the Nile River in the city today known as Luxor and was constructed approximately 1400 BCE. In the Egyptian language it is known as ipet resyt the southern sanctuary

Pyramid of Menkaure
The Pyramid of Menkaure is the smallest of the three main Pyramids of Giza located on the Giza Plateau in the southwestern outskirts of Cairo Egypt. It is thought to have been built to serve as the tomb of the Fourth Dynasty Egyptian Pharaoh Menkaure.

Coptic Museum
The Coptic Museum is a museum in Coptic Cairo Egypt with the largest collection of Egyptian Christian artifacts in the world. It was founded by Marcus Simaika in 1908 to house Coptic antiquities. The museum traces the history of Egypt from its beginnings to the present day

Philae Temple
Philae is an island in the reservoir of the Aswan Low Dam downstream of the Aswan Dam and Lake Nasser Egypt. Philae was originally located near the expansive First Cataract of the Nile in Upper Egypt and was the site of an Egyptian temple complex.

Mokattam Hills


Giza Necropolis
The Giza Pyramid Complex also called the Giza Necropolis is the site on the Giza Plateau in Greater Cairo Egypt that includes the Great Pyramid of Giza the Pyramid of Khafre and the Pyramid of Menkaure along with their associated pyramid complexes and the Great Sphinx of Giza

Memphis Tours


Saqqarah


Mosque of Muhammad Ali
The Great Mosque of Muhammad Ali Pasha or Alabaster Mosque is a mosque situated in the Citadel of Cairo in Egypt and was commissioned by Muhammad Ali Pasha between 1830 and 1848.

Mortuary Temple of Hatshepsut


The National Museum of Egyptian Civilization.


Khan el-Khalili


Sidi Morsi Abu al-Abbas Mosque


Morsi Abu alabas mosque


Kom Umbu


Sharm El-Sheikh


Edfu Temple mammisi


Edfu Temple mammisi


Pyramids of Giza
This is one of the best places to visit in Egypt as it’s the number one itinerary on every tourist’s list who visits Egypt. They are ancient shaped masonry which was mostly built for the as the tomb for the country’s Pharaohs and their consorts during the old and middle kingdom. These dynasty funeral temples have enticed many travellers for centuries and still continue to be of the country’s major highlights as the main Egypt tourist places.

Al-Azhar Mosque
Al-Azhar Mosque is one of Egypt sights which is Cairo’s earliest surviving mosques. It is one of the finest buildings which were completed in AD 972 and today it is known as Al-Azhar University which is one of the leading theological centres of the Islamic world. The main entrance to the mosque is the Gate of the Barbers, and to the right is the El-Taibarsiya Medrese. The best view of the mosque’s five minarets is slicker from the central courtyard.

Old Cairo
The Coptic Museum was founded in 1908 and houses the old art of Christianity in the country up to the conversion into Islam. There are beautiful galleries which elaborate woodcarving which include the sculpture that shows the rich walls, Ptolemaic period and the decorated monastery walls. There are about 1200 items on display which can be explored for some couple of hours.

Karnak Temple
It is one of the largest religious buildings ever built which dates from 2055 B.C to 100 A.D. The temple was built in dedication to the Theban triad of Amun, Mut, and Khonsu. It also exhibits the achievements of many generations of Egyptian builders. It continued up until the Romans took control over Egypt and the ruler left his architectural mark here.

Red Sea Reef
One of the best things to do in Egypt is to take a dive in the off coast of Egypt, the Red Sea. It is one of the most beautiful places in the world to dive and see the spectacular beauty of what lies under the water. It features some of the world’s most exotic seascape with wide visibility of the coral formation on the reefs. Being an inland to thousands of sea creatures, they paint the colour of the water so palpably.

River Nile Cruise
Since ancient times, the Nile has been one of Egypt’s lifelines and there’s no better way to explore the country’s history than taking a cruise on the Nile. It’s one of the best ways to visit and see Upper Egypt. Most of the cruise takes the safest route on the river, the Luxor-Aswan route which halts at two of Egypt’s most important towns.

Abu Simbel
The Abu Simbel temples are two major rocks which are located at Abu Simbel on the western bank of Lake Nasser. It is also part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site which was carved out of mountains in the 13th century. They served as the only lasting monument for the King and Queen and celebrate his victory at the Battle of Kadesh.

Siwa Oasis
Siwa is Egypt’s most isolated settlement located in the Libyan Desert with over 23,00o of the ethnic group called the Berbers. It is located on one of the old trade routes of Egypt which were an important oasis giving shade to travellers with their palm trees and provided water through its natural spring giving travellers a layoff from the desert.

Dahab
The once isolated coastal village now taunts its laid back lifestyle to a number of crowds. It is located on the Gulf of Aqaba and was turned into a hippie hangout place in the 1980’ something of an alternative resort. It offers tourist many activities such as scuba diving, snorkelling, windsurfing, jeep and camel trips making it a popular destination along the coast of the Red Sea.

Temple of Philae
The temple is a UNESCO World Heritage Site which was constructed in 690 AD in an authentic Egyptian style and structure. It is a remarkable piece of work and architecture which was relocated from its original of the Philae Island to the present location Agilkia Island. If it had not been moved, it would have been a lost monument and history of the world.

Hatchepsut Temple
The temple is also known as the Djeser-Djeseru is located in Upper Egypt and built for the Pharaoh, Hatshepsut in the Eighteen Century. It is also dedicated to Amun which served an inspiration and considered to be the incomparable monuments of ancient Egypt. In 1995, the first two levels were almost completed whereas the top was still under its construction.

White Desert
The Sahara Desert is one of the surreal-looking Egypt attractions which are desolate lunar places for few travellers. The whole region is surrounded by the formation of white chalk ranging from white to cream colour. It also shows off its smooth sand dunes of the Great sea and the cliff of the Farafra Depression.

Ras Muhammad National Park
Ras Muhammad National Park is not just a national park, it also happens to be a diving spot in Egypt. The park is located in Sinai among the mangroves and coral reefs of the Red Sea. The facade of the water is smooth and clear which makes it an ideal place for many snorkelling and diver enthusiasts to see them under water’s vitality and beauty.

Memphis
During the Old Kingdom, Memphis was the capital of Egypt and it is now one of UNESCO World Heritage Sites in Cairo although there are not many remains left today. According to legend, the city was founded by Pharaoh Menes. The city has been abandoned and its palaces were all demolished and looted.

The Egyptian Museum
The Egyptian Museum is another Egypt tourist spots which have mind blogging collection of antiques making it one of the world’s greatest museums. It was founded by a French Egyptologist, Agugust Mariette in 1857 and place moved to downtown Cairo in 1897. Though the collections are poorly labelled, yet any tourists can’t stop being impressed by the sheer majesty of its exhibition.

Saqqara Pyramids
The area is located 30km away south of Cairo which was used as a burial site for the old kingdom capital, Memphis. It consists of many pyramids and many other small size burial tombs, including Step Pyramid of Djoser. The monument dates back from the 27th century BC and after it was built, remained to be one of the tallest structures for 40 years.

The Khan El-Khalili Market
This market is one of Cairo tourist attractions as it is the heart of Islamic Cairo which dates from 1832. This was built by Emir Djaharks as a roadside inn to accommodate many travellers. It’s a great market place where you can find shops and vendors selling food, spices, gold, silver and copper souvenirs.

Al-Hazar Park
The park was built on a refuse dump site which was opened in the year 2005 for people to get away from the pollution and noise of Cairo. Its lush garden is built stretching over 1 kilometre in length designed in traditional geometric lines. The park includes fountains, stonework, waterways, orchard, playground with varieties of plants and flowers planted in the surrounding.

The Citadel
The well preserved medieval citadel is located on top of the Muqattam Hill with a number of museums and mosques around it. Until the 19th century, it became home to the government. It encloses a number of mosques, most famously the Mosque of Mohammed Ali. Other attractions include Citadel Prison Museum, Mosque of Sultan al-Nasir and the Military Museum.

President Palace/ Abdeen Palace
The President Palace/ Abdeen Palace is located in downtown Cairo which is an important political site, It is the principal place and Cairo sights where the government works and resides. It is said to be adorned with fascinating structure making its one of the most fascinating Palaces in the world. Though tourists are not allowed to get inside the Palace, it’s wonderful to just take a stroll and glance at the beauty of the Palace.

Tahir Square
It is a major public town square which has been a focus political location demonstration in Cairo. It became popular after the Egyptian Revolution of 1919 and its name was still officially not named. It is in the centre of the city and therefore it gets really busy with much traffic.

Museum of Islamic Art
It is considered to be the greatest and best in the world with its excellent and exceptional collection of plaster artefacts, rare woodwork, glass, metals, ceramics, textiles and crystals from all over the world. If you are looking for the best things to do Cairo is to visit the Museum. Now it houses about 100,000 objects and has organised a number of national and international exhibitions.

Baron Empain Palace
It is better known as The Hindu Palace which is a distinctive historic mansion located in the northeast central of Cairo. It was inspired by the temple of Angkor Wat in Cambodia and it’s one of the main reasons to go and explore the suburb of Heliopolis. Though it is an abandoned place, yet it is still a beautiful place to adore.

Mosque of Ibn Tulun


Nilometer
The Nile River has always been the lifeline for the people of Egypt. It is considered to be one of the tourist places in Cairo. The Nilometer is basically an instrument that uses to measure the water of the Nile so that the farmers could predict whether to expect a famine or flood. There is another type of Nilometer which is in seen on The Elephantine Island.
Czech Republic
This small landlocked country snuggled in the heart of Europe is one of the most loved destinations across the world. Every kind of holiday spent in the Czech Republic, be it a family vacation, a romantic outing, leisure travelling or a special interest tour, is like mood-making magic overpowering your senses. Fascinating castles and chateaux, sixteen UNESCO monuments and historical cities, colourful events, some of the most wonderful spas, picturesque countryside and scenic cycling trips, ample rolling hills and hiking trails- one life, is indeed not enough to explore all the incredibly unique Czech Republic Tourist Attractions. Start your Czech tour with one of Europe’s most fascinating cities and a flourishing capital Prague, set out to the winding lanes of the old town in Brno, go to Pilsen for tasting the beer, sing and do happy dancing along with the locals in South Bohemia and Moravia or just walk past the beautiful landscapes and hills that adorn the country’s backdrop like a well-painted art. People have been thronging to the Czech Republic in great numbers for several years now, however; most of them still prefer to stick to the capital Prague and it is easy to justify why. Known as the cradle of Czech culture, Prague is steeped in history and brims with unique charm while it basks in the glory of its copious wealth of natural and cultural treasures. The Places to visit in Prague offer classic sights to global travellers. As one of Europe's best-preserved cities, you'll wander along the cobblestone streets to beautiful cathedrals, see the medieval core of Gothic architecture, castle ramparts and the spires of St Vitus Cathedral rising above and commanding Charles Bridge. But the capital is not just about history; it is also the enlivening urban centre where you can see the cafes calling out to you, several bars and the newly emerging foodie scene that has been attracting travellers for a long time now. Ancient and modern, romantic and eye-catching, each of Prague Tourist Attractions has its unique characteristic atmosphere and a charm hard to experience anywhere in the country. It is indeed one city you can keep coming back to and discover more and more along the way. We are sure that reading about the enchanting Czech has captured your attention but to truly capture your heart, this country calls for an inquisitive exploration. To help you figure out the best places to visit in the Czech Republic, we have made a list below. Use this as a Czech Republic travel map to explore more beyond the magnificent Prague Attractions and begin planning your trip today!
Prague Castle
Prague Castle is a castle complex in Prague Czech Republic built in the 9th century. It is the official office of the President of the Czech Republic. The castle was a seat of power for kings of Bohemia Holy Roman emperors and presidents of Czechoslovakia. The Bohemian Crown Jewels are kept within a hidden room inside it. According to the Guinness Book of Records Prague Castle is the largest ancient castle in the world occupying an area of almost 70000 square metres at about 570 metres in length and an average of about 130 metres wide. The castle is among the most visited tourist attractions in Prague attracting over 1.8 million visitors annually.

Old Town Square


St. Vitus Cathedral


Cathedral of St. Peter and Paul


Moravian Karst


Le Valmont Club & Lounge
Great cocktail bar highly recommend it Quite small but nice and cozy. You can enjoy comfy couches and chairs lounge music mirrored toilets or sisha water pipe. One of the top ten cocktail bars in Prague but definitely without crowded tourists.

Charles Bridge
Charles Bridge is a medieval stone arch bridge that crosses the Vltava river in Prague Czech Republic. Its construction started in 1357 under the auspices of King Charles IV and finished in the early 15th century.

Prague
With the presence of the fall of the Iron Curtain, Prague comes out among the lists of ‘world’s popular tourist sites.’ It is a land to over several architectural architectural styles including Neo-Gothic, Art Nouveau, Baroque, Romanesque, Rococo, Cubist, Gothic, Neoclassical, Ultramodern, Renaissance, and Neo-Renaissance. The main attractions in Prague sights include Hradcany, Lesser Town (Mala Strana), Old Town (Stare Mesto), Josefov, New Town (Nove Mesto), Vinohrady, and Zizkov. Other eye-catching Prague tourist places include the Vysehrad Castle, Prague Metronome, Industrial Palace, Letohradek Hvezda, Andel, Nusle Bridge, Strahov Monastery, and so on.

Cesky Krumlov
In the list of Czech Republic tourist spots, Cesky Krumlov is a famous place. The town lies in the regions of South Bohemia. The architectural style in the old town is present from the 14th to 17th centuries. The famous structures in the town include Baroque, Gothic, and Renaissance. The historical center is famed with the Cesky Krumlov Castle, which is listed under the UNESCO World Heritage Sites. The castle has a giant rococo garden with an exquisite bridge giving a picturesque look. It is built on a heavy rock which comes under the famous places to visit in Czech Republic.

Kutna Hora
The magnificent town lies in the region of Central Bohemia. In the list of Things to do in Czech Republic, Kutna Hora is an eye-catching tourist destination. Its main sights include Italian Court, Church of St. Barbara, Marian Column, Church of Our Lady, Sedlec Ossuary, Jesuit College, St. James Church, Ursuline Convent Church, St. John Nepomuk Church, Palackeho Square, Black Death Memorial, and so on. Kutna Hora center and Sedlec Abbey are listed under the UNESCO World Heritage Sites catching the entire attention. The stained glass design printed in the Church of St. Barbara gives an eye-catching impression to the visitors.

Karlovy Vary
Karlovy Vary is also famous with the name of “Carlsbad.” It is a famous spa town which lies in the region of Western Bohemia between the majestic rivers Tepla and Ohre. In the list of Czech Republic Attractions, Karlovy Vary can’t be missed to explore. It is a land with several glorious hot springs which include 300 smaller springs, 13 main springs, and the exquisite river Tepla. The visitors can explore the picturesque outdoor pool filled with mineral water and the striking Vridelni street set above the Jeanna De Carro. Some major attractions include Dvorak Park, Grandhotel Pupp, City Opera House, Park Colonnade, Mill Colonnade, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk Plaque, and so on.

Castle Karlstejn
Karlstejn Castle is built in an exquisite Gothic architectural style. During the time of 1348 CE, Charles IV (Roman Emperor and Bohemia King) founded the castle. It was a remarked place for protecting the Bohemia crowns, Czech jewels, Imperial Regalia, regal valuables, relics, and other riches. In the list of Places to visit in Czech Republic, Karlstejn Castle is a famous site. The picturesque wall placed in the Holy Cross Chapel is eye-catching. The Well Tower was the first part which was constructed in the castle. The alluring portrait of Charles IV along with his wife is placed on the Marian Tower in the in the St. Catherine Chapel, which looks attracting to the tourist visiting the place.

Telc
The Town of Telc lies in the regions of Southern Moravia, which is located near Jihlava. During the time of 13th century, the town came into existence acting as a regal water fort on the routes which lies between Austria, Bohemia, and Moravia. The cultural town covers an area of 36 ha making it a favourable place to visit. An eye-catching attraction is the town is the main square which is famed for its 16th century-built houses. The town square is an eccentric, complex, which includes Baroque houses, urban plaza, and well-preserved Renaissance. The Chateau castle is also famed among the visitors. All these sites are presently under the UNESCO World Heritage Sites.

Olomouc
The city lies on the magnificent Morava river, on the eastern side of the country. In the country of the Czech Republic, Olomouc is titled as the “6th largest city.” It provides a residence place to about 100,000 inhabitants. In addition, its urban zone holds about 480,000 population. It has numerous giant squares, among which is the exquisite Holy Trinity Column famed as the UNESCO World Heritage site. Other major attractions include St. Wenceslas Cathedral, Olomouc Astronomical Clock, St.Michael’s Church, Red Church, St. Maurice Church, John Sarkander Chapel, Hradisko, Town Hall, and so on.

Litomysl
In the list of Czech Republic tourist attractions, Litomysl remains a famed borough and precinct, which lies in the region of Pardubice, Bohemia. It is situated at a distance of 136 km in the eastern side of Prague and provides land to about 10,300 occupants. The town is centered with a magnificent Chateau Complex, which is listed among the UNESCO World Heritage Sites. A dominant feature in the town is the Renaissance Castle, which is regarded as a historical monument as well as along with its atypical architectural style. The townlands to a museum named “Portmoneum” which is famous for artists and writers.

Plzen
The city lies at a distance of about 90 km west side of Prague. It is famous for the Pilsner beer, which came into existence by Josef Groll, the Bavarian brewer. The exquisite St. Bartholomew’s Cathedral was a Gothic architectural style example built in the 13th century. The Cathedral has a tower reaching 102 m above the ground. In the list of things to do in Czech Republic, the Moorish Revival Great Synagogue, the Renaissance Town Hall, Water Tower, Plzensky Prazdroj Brewery, and Franciscan Monastery are the places to explore. The magnificent fountain, which lies in the main square of Plzen is a picturesque place to explore.

The Bohemian Paradise
Bohemian Paradise is a picturesque landscape, which is well-conserved. The region holds a title to be the “first nature reserve in the Czech Republic.” At present, it reaches a surface area of about 182 km square. It lies in the regions of Northern Bohemia, North-Eastern Prague. Trosky Castle is a famed symbol of the Bohemian Paradise Kost Castle is also a major attraction. Other sites include Humprecht Castle, Hruba Skala Castle, Sychrov Castle, Valdstejn Castle, Frydstejn Castle, Dlaskuv Estate, and Hruby Rohozec Castle. In the area, Kozakov hill is at the highest peak and is a major attraction for the hikers.

Hluboka Castle
The historical chateau lies between Vltavou and Hluboka. In the regions of the Czech Republic, Hluboka Castle is the most striking and picturesque place. The castle is built in a Gothic architectural style which captures the entire attention. At present, the castle is based on the romantic style taken a view from the Windsor Castle in England. The castle holds a title of being the “National Cultural Monument” in the country. It comes under the list of popular Czech Republic tourist spots.

Pruhonice Park
The elegant park came in the foundation during the time in1885. The park features eye-catching streams and ponds to explore by the visitors. In the regions of Europe, it is an exquisite landscape architectural example, with the finest botanical collection, including exotic shrubs, native trees, domestic species, and rhododendrons. It holds a place in the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites. The fragile and superlative experience one can enjoy here is not easily found anywhere else. It houses to over 1,600 different plant categories, Alpinum, 8000 rhododendrons, ponds, and streams. To enjoy peace and calmness, it is a perfect place in the Czech Republic.

Prague’s Charles Bridge
The ancient bridge is built to serve as a crossing over the eye-catching river Vltava in the regions of Prague. It laid a major connection path between the Prague old town, Prague Castle, and remaining areas adjacent to the city. The exquisite statues on the bridge include the most famed sculptors of Bohemia such as Jan Brokoff, Matthias Braun, Ferdinand Maximilian, and Michael Joseph. During the time of 1965, these alluring statues were replaced by a replica. The original statues are present in the Lapidarium exhibition, National Museum. There are three bridge towers which acts as a safeguarding medium for the Charles Bridge. Two towers are placed on the Lesser Quarter side and one is placed on the Old Town of Prague side.

Wenceslas Square
Being one of the city’s main squares, it has remained extremely famed among the tourist destination spots. The center of cultural and business communities lies in the Prague New Town regions. It is a place for several historical happenings and is a conventional site for public visits and gatherings. It comes under the Prague Historic Center, which is a World Heritage Site. It is built in a rectangular shape which is 75 m long. Some notable buildings on the square includes Wenceslas Museum, National Museum, Jan Kotera Peterka Building, Antonin Wiehl’s House, Lindt Building, Melantrich Building, and so on.

The Hilltop Fortress: Vyšehrad
The ancient fortress is in the southeast direction of Prague Castle standing on the alluring Vltava river bank. It houses to the Vyešhrad Cemetery and the Basilica of St. Paul and St. Peter. The statues present in the fort include Josef Vaclav Myslbek, Libuse and Premysl, Ctirad and Sarka, Lumir and Pisen, Zaboj and Slavoj, Mikulas Karlach, Saint Wenceslas, and Vaclav Stulc. It also houses to the antiquated St. Martin Rotunda. The cultural fortress is built with magnificent architectural styles including Baroque, Gothic, Neo-Gothic, and Romanesque. The fortified place houses to Tabor gate, Leopold gate, strong brick ramparts, and brick gate. The gates are built in an empire architectural style which captures the entire attention.

Prague National Theatre
Among the Prague Sights, The National Theatre situated in Prague comes out as a major tourist destination. It is famed as the “national monument of Czech history” and “alma mater of Czech opera.” It is a belonging to the Czech cultural institutions including a lavish artistic heritage. At present, the theatre is comprised of three magnificent artistic troupes including drama, opera, and ballet. The Triga, a three-horse Quadriga is worth watching. It holds 10 exterior items by Antonin Wagner, 10 extrinsic metaphorical carving by the famous Bohuslav Schnirch. The stoned carvings by Max Verich are an eye-catching attraction of the theatre.

The Dancing House
The Dancing House is also known as the famous Fred and Ginger. It is built in the deconstructivist style which is like a new-baroque to the architects. Its unusual shape makes it a unique place among the tourists. It is formed in a dancing shape which stands still in the presence of 99 tactile panels of distinct sizes and shapes. The building is covered with a huge twisted metal structure with a nickname as Mary’. The house represents the two extremely popular dancers Ginger Rogers as a glass tower and Fred Astaire as a rock tower.

Petrin Hill
The Petrin Hill is a major attraction place which rises above 327 m from the sea level and is about 130 m above the Vltava river left bank. Its main sights include the Hunger Wall, Petrin Lookout Tower, Strahov Stadium, Petrin Funicular, Rose Garden, Mirror Maze, Stefanik’s Observatory, St. Michael the Archangel Church, St. Lawrence Cathedral, and Memorial for the Communism Victims. The hill is surrounded by the alluring parks and acts as a lovable amusement place for the Prague occupants. The Hunger Wall on the Petrin Hill gives an iconic view. The hill’s summit is in the link to the Mala Strana district in Prague.

The Infant Jesus of Prague
The 16th century built Roman Catholic statue is a representation of the child Jesus, which comprises of a Globus Cruciger and lies in the Discalced Carmelite Church of Our Lady Victorious in the regions of Mala Strana. The Infant Jesus of Prague was built during the time of 1555, in which, the statue is built with a wax coating wooden layer covered with a green vestment. It is a 19-inch statue built with the coated wooden wax layer. For safeguarding the wax layer, the bottom half portion is kept surrounded in a silver case. The Benefactors shared a major contribution in donating numerous expensive adorned vestments.

The Municipal House
The civic astonishing building houses a Smetana Hall, which remains a concert hall in the city. It lies on the Namesti Republiky which is placed next to the huge Powder Gate. At present, the building has been transformed into a ballroom, concert hall, and holds restaurants and cafes. The Foyer, Fresko, and exhibition hall are major attractions. It is built in majestic Art Nouveau style with the splendid external surface of stucco ad allegorical art. The entrance is glorified with the presence of “Homage to Prague” mosaic by Karel Spillar.

Zizkov TV Tower
The eccentric transmitter, TV tower is built during the time of 1985 to 1992. The antenna spire stands at a height of 216 m above the ground. It represents an alluring example of the highly-technological architecture style built in the Prague city. It is like an uncustomary structure based on a triangular shape with its corners standing up in the form of steel columns. The night view of the tower is beautiful and captures the entire attention in the city. The tower was built with a construction cost of $19 million. With a weight of 11,800 tons, it has become a major attraction site. It also holds a record of being the member of “World Federation of Great Towers.”

Tyn Church
In the list of Prague tourist attractions, Tyn Church or the Church of Our Lady Before Tyn is a famed place. It is built like a Gothic church and remains an eye-catching feature of the Prague old town. It holds huge towers reaching 80 m height and is covered with four small-sized spires. For the tourists, classical music concerts are being performed occasionally. The church is a land to the old pipe organ found in the regions of Prague, which was built during the time of 1673. The entrance is present on the western side in the form of a narrow pathway.

The Olšany Cemetery
Among the places to visit in Prague, Olšany Cemetery is the substantial necropolis. It is famous for its many astonishing art nouveau gravestones. The tomb of Augustin Volosin is also present here who was the first president to rule over the regions of Carpathian Ruthenia. Many well-known writers, actors, artists, politicians, and other people are buried in this cemetery. It gives land to over 65,000 graves. One can look at the graves of British Commonwealth Service Personnel over this graveyard.

Powder Tower
The tower assemblies like a magnificent Gothic Gate built in the regions of Prague. In the city, it is an original tower built so far. It acts as a separation gate between the old and new towns of Prague. During the time of 1475, the construction of the Powder Tower came into existence. It remains an alluring entrance pathway to welcome the tourists entering into the city. The tower’s appearance was an inspiration from the Charles Bridge by Peter Parler.

The Petrín Lookout Tower
The 63.5 m high steel-built tower stands on the magnificent Petrin Hill and came into existence during the time of 1891. It was built to resemble alike the gorgeous Eiffel Tower. It was built to serve two functions which are observation and transmission. At present, it is centered as a major tourist destination spot. On the main level, a small cafe and gift shop is also present to serve the tourists. The lower level comprises of a small mounting zone

The National Museum
The opulent Czech Museum is a major tourist destination in sight. It was built with the main purpose to exhibit the ancient and natural science collections. It holds about 14 million objects showcasing the historical aspects, artistic culture, librarianship, and musical features. At present, the museum stores the alluring material items in three parts which are natural museum, historical museum, and library. The natural museum contains several departments relating to botany, entomology, paleontology, anthropology, mycology, mineralogy, and zoology. The historical museum houses six departments for prehistory and protohistory, old Czech history, ethnography, numismatics, national museum archives, and theatre. The library holds a varied collection for the tourists to explore.

Mala Strana
Mala Strana district is a famous sight among the Prague attractions. Being the most historical region, it has gathered huge attention by the visitors. It has served as a features center for the ethnic Germans during the time of the Middle Ages. It houses, major interesting spots, including Wallenstein Palace, St. Nicholas Church, Holy Infant Jesus of Prague State, Church of Our Lady Victorious, Prague Embassy, Nerudova Street, Petrin Lookout Tower, Kampa Island, and so on.

Spanish Synagogue
The synagogue is a newly built presence which lies in the regions of Jewish Town, Prague. The magnificent Moorish revival architectural style captures the entire attention of the visitors. In the list of Prague attractions, the Spanish Synagogue is a major site. It has a small park in which a modern Franz Kafka’s statue is built who was a famed writer in Prague. There is a Holy Spirit church for the devotees. The two-storey palace is covered with a plain square shaped ground.

The Clementinum and the National Library
The Clementinum is a palatial remarkable building complex, which lies in Prague, Czech Republic. The Slavic Library placed in the complex holds a wide range of collection. It was a time in the past when the Clementinum was titled as the “3rd largest Jesuit college over the globe.” It has a Baroque Library which is extremely famous for its exquisite interior designs. The National Library is a well-renowned central library present in the Clementinum building and Hostivar district. It's funded with about 6 million documents, making it extremely populous.

Prague Zoo
The zoological garden is a major sight in Prague. It holds a title of the “7th best zoo over the globe” by the Forbes Travel Guide during the time of 2007. TripAdvisor also rated the zoo as the “5th best in the world.” It holds a major share in the contribution to save Przewalski’s horse for about a number of years. The Radegast sculpture, small tram, and zoo chairlift are the major attractions in the garden. The visitors can enjoy looking at the polar bear, Sumatran tiger, cheetah, western lowland gorilla, and many more animals.

Letna Park
The Letna park is a huge park which lies on the Letna hills and constructed on a plateau along with the magnificent and the eye-catching river Vltava. The famed monuments, buildings, and sights at the place include Hanavsky Pavilion, Ancient Letensky Carousel, Gogolova Street, Statue of Pebble, Metronome Pedestal, Stalin’s Monument, Molochov’s Functionalist Facade, and Sparta’s Stadium. The visitors can enjoy the popular postcard view towards the tall standing bridges in the regions of Downtown Prague.
Romania
Nestled on the Balkan Peninsula, Romania is a European country flaunting a strong yet mysteriously unique character. Full of contrasts, the country has abundance of pulsating western cities on one side while the other end features rustic old towns along with Gothic-era buildings and churches running along the cobblestone streets that seem to have stood still in time. History is something that Romania is definitely never short of. Medieval castles and old towns dot the country – notably in Sighişoara and Bucharest that feel like a place straight from the pages of a fairytale; in the Bran Castle of region Brașov, you’ll find more about history of the legendary Dracula and not to forget, the Peles Castle, one of the most stunning Romania Tourist Attractions, is a new-Renaissance architectural masterpiece that you should definitely not miss. Not only is history an integral part of the country’s magnetic appeal, its diverse landscape, crammed with thick forests, remote mountain passes, rugged hills and gorgeous plains cast a magical spell with their scenic beauty. Along with these, the chic mountain resorts, cafes, glitzy restaurants and a burgeoning art scene, add to the modern beauty of Romania. Just a few days in the journey to Romania Attractions and you will be bowled over by its beauty. From the UNESCO World Heritage Site of Danube Delta to the beautiful, undamaged, medieval towns, from Romania's lively capital city Bucharest to the Black Sea, from wild Carpathian Mountains to the unmissable Turda Salt Mine, from Transylvania to painted monasteries in Bucovina or wooden churches and old villages at Maramures, every place and corner of this country deserves appreciation and attention. The first point of arrival for many visitors is the capital city, Bucharest and no Romania itinerary is ever complete without mentioning the Top Bucharest Tourist Attractions. A wonderful mix of the old and new, medieval buildings and churches thriving along the city centre’s growing gastronomic scene, a wave of artisan coffee joints and art aplenty- Bucharest has a unique appeal attached to it. Once known as the “Little Paris of the East”, the capital city even today, is delightfully off the tourist’s radar which is considered quite a blessing for those still wanting to discover the interesting Bucharest Attractions. Tie up your shoelaces and get going to explore the mysteriously beautiful Romania tourist places mentioned below along with some unmissable places to visit in Bucharest - You won’t regret it!
Bran Castle


Habsburg Palace


Chindia Castle


Peles Castle


Cibin Market


The Old Town
Bucharest’s Old Town is also known to most locals as Centru Vechi (the Old Centre). This town is defined by the area bordered by the Dambovita river to the south, Bulevardul Brătianu to the east, Calea Victoriei to the west, and Regina Elisabeta to the north. The area of this town is more or less all which is left of pre-World War II Bucharest.

Palace of the Parliament
The Palace of Parliament is the biggest and heaviest administrative building on the globe which is used for civilian purposes, and also the second largest administrative building overall, after the Pentagon. This imposing building currently houses the Romanian Senate and the Romanian Chamber of Deputies, and it is also the headquarters of the Southeast European Cooperation Initiative. This building is also known as the “People’s House”. It was an attempt of Nicolae Ceausescu of redesigning Bucharest by constructing a series of impressive buildings which are meant to prove to the world how wealthy, successful, and powerful was the Socialist Republic of Romania.

Romanian Athenaeum
Romanian Athenaeum is one of the top ten places to visit in Bucharest. The concert hall is located in the Bucharest, Romania center and marks as a landmark in the list of Bucharest sights. It was opened during 1888 in the shape of a circular design. It is built in a neoclassical style with some amorous traces. The small park present in the hall’s front gathers huge attraction. The statue of Mihai Eminescu (Romanian poet) makes it a picturesque place. Being the city’s top-picked a destination among tourists, the concert hall remains a fascinating place to explore with the Costin Petrescu’s extensive fresco. In 2007, it was recorded in the list of “Label of European Heritage Sites".

Stavropoleos Church
The Stavropoleos Monastery is in the Bucharest central location which is built with Brancovenesc architectural style. St. Archangels Michael and Gabriel are the saints of the church. Its choir gives a magnificent impression about the Byzantine melody piece which was created in 1994. It holds the largest collection for this melodious book in the city. It was erected during the time period of 1724. Ioannikios Stratonikeas was the Archimandrite who constructed it. When Ioannikios died in 1764, his dead body was buried in his assembled church.

Revolution Square
When roaming around the Bucharest tourist places, Revolution Square can’t be missed. The Palace Square (name until 1989) is on the Calea Victoriei in Bucharest, Romania. Later, in 1989, it was named after the Revolution in Romania. It remained a royal palace which is now transformed into the National Museum of Art of Romania. It has an Athenee Palace Hotel, University of Bucharest Library, Memorial of Rebirth, and Athenaeum.

The Arch of Triumph
The Arcul De Triumph is one of the major Bucharest tourist attractions which is located in the city’s Northern area on the Kiseleff Road. It was the first wooden arch which came into construction for the heroes of the World War I and War of Independence. It reaches a 27-meter height from the ground, which makes it a picturesque site. The foundation is measured as the 25x11.50 meter as a rectangular shape. Ion Jalea and Dimitrie Paciurea were the Romanian carvers behind the decoration of the elevation. Every year on December 1st, a military parade is scheduled to happen underneath the arch in respect of Romania’s national holiday.

National Museum of Art
In the list of Romania tourist attractions, the National Museum of Art is a famous site. The Royal Palace lies in the Revolution Square in Bucharest, Romania. With the presence of archaic and contemporary Romanian artwork, it becomes a Major Romania Tourist Spot. The exquisite catholic collection, which is congregated by the Royal Family in Romania is also gathering huge attraction. During 15th July to 2nd October 2005, a giant exhibition was held with the title “Shadows and Light.” It was titled as the largest exhibition held with the French artwork and paintings in the four centuries.

Dimitrie Gusti National Village Museum
In the list of top ten things to do in Bucharest, this village museum cannot be skipped to explore. The open-air museum lies in King Michael I Park in Bucharest, Romania. It showcases a beautiful attraction of the historic conventional village life of the Romanian people. It has 272 sterling farmhand plantation and vineyard from all over the Romania country. During the time of 1936, the museum came into existence.

National Museum of Romanian History
In the list of Attractions in Romania, the National Museum of Romanian History remains a famous sight in Romania. It lies on the Calea Victoriei located in Bucharest city. The archival artifacts from the Romanian ancient period till the twenty-first-century are present in the museum. It has a surface which spreads over 8000 sq meters with about 60 exhibition halls. The perpetual views comprise the Pietroasele treasure, Trajan’s column, and Romanian crown jewels. It showcases various pieces that are connected to the Siege of Plevna. In 1892, the building became authorized. The eclectic architectural style is really eye-catching. It has a giant porch along with the three built upper flooring

Bucharest Parks
Among the Bucharest Parks, there exist 9 parks which are present in the list of Bucharest tourist attractions. These include Kiseleff Park, Cismigiu Gardens, Botanical Garden, Carol Park, Herastrau Park, Circus Park, Titan Park, Tineretului Park, and Plumbuita Park. These gardens are a great site to enjoy peace from the city’s bustling environment. Some of the old parks feature a historical aspect. The lake view in these peaceful surrounding gives immense pleasure. During the summer season, tourist can enjoy boating activities. The winter calls for the skaters.

Transylvanian Alps
Transylvanian Alps are mountain ranges situated in south-central of Romania. Also, known as “Southern Carpathians” these mountains stretch from Carpathian Mountain arc from Prahova River valley, to split in which the Timiş and Cerna rivers flow. These towering mountains are much elevated, closer and blocked than those in eastern and western Romania, making it a popular destination for hiking and skiing. The beauty of Transylvanian Alps is its alpine landscapes, lush forests, crystalline massifs and glacial lakes. Scientists also find these mountains attractive as they possess rich flora fauna for research. These mountain ranges are a reservoir for valuable resources like coal, iron and lignite deposits.

Salina Turda
Salina Turda is a century old salt mine in Romania located in Durgău-Valea Sărată area of Turda. The mine is popular for its 2000 years of history, preserved galleries and sci-fi amusement park, all situated below 120 metres below the surface of the Earth. It is one of the oldest mine ever known in history, where salt extraction started on the surface in antiquity, but the underground work was initiated during the Roman occupation of Dacia. The most impressive point about Salina Turda is that no explosives were used to hollow the mine, it was exclusively done by hand or machine. The Salt mine was functional till 1932 after which it was closed. Later it did serve many purposes like a Bomb shelter during World War ll and a warehouse for storing cheese. Today it has a huge museum, an amphitheatre, an underground lake, a ferry wheel, spa treatment and much more. Salina Turda is the most stunning place in the world and once in a lifetime place to visit.

Sighisoara Historic Center
The beautiful Historic Centre of Sighișoara is also known as Sighișoara Citadel. Saxon settlers built it in the 12th century. The tourist comes here to see the well-preserved walled old town. In 1999, UNESCO designated this place as a World Heritage Site for its 850-year-old presence in history and culture of Transylvanian Saxons. It is the birthplace of Vlad III the Impaler and on this day every year, Sighișoara hosts a medieval festival where people celebrate it with local art, rock music and plays. The city exhibits medieval period architecture and cultural heritage.

Merry Cemetery
Merry Cemetery is a place in Romania where grave markers celebrate life with beautiful pictures, colours and ornate it. Located in a village of Săpânța, Maramureş county is a place famous for its colourful tombstone with naïve paintings. This tradition began in the 1930s by Ion Stan Patras and continues to be followed by the Pop, even today. Unlike usual graves, they are not marked with an austere and cold stone. However, each grave is decorated with a lively wooden cross painted in radiant blue of heaven and decorated with pictures and an original poem depicting the life and character of the eternal inhabitant. It is said that this unusual belief has connections with European societies and Dacian culture who believed in the immortality of the soul and that death was a joyous moment and anticipation of a better life

Piata Mare
Piata Mare is one of the few places in Europe which has received love, care and cold hard cash over the last few years. The stunning Square has always been famous for its imposing tower and the old historic houses. Everything in the square is protected and is a historic monument. Although, the Square was not where the Sibiu began. Its first market square was located in the corner of Piata Huet. However, as time passed by, in the 15th century, Piata Mare became the centre of Sibiu, hosting markets and public meetings. Its pedestrian-friendly place where one can walk around the Square and can view Urnul Sfatului, or Council Tower, the statue of Gheorghe Lazar, La Turn restaurant that runs in a building from the 1650s, elegant baroque Catholic church, and much more.

Biertan Fortified Church
Biertan Church is a 15th Century fortified church located in Biertan, Transylvania. The village of Biertan was first mentioned in an official document in 1283, and so has an important link in the medieval history of Transylvania. Biertan Church is situated in the middle of this village surrounded by quaint streets and vineyards. It is protected by 35-foot-high strong walls, connected by towers and gates, making the church impossible to conquer during medieval times. The church depicts late-gothic architecture with heavy wooden doors. Visitors can admire the Church organ which was built in 1869 and has some 1290 pipes and 25 registers. Also, visitors can view the towers surrounding the church, namely the Clock Tower, the Bell Tower, the Gate Tower and the Bacon Tower.

Sucevita Monastery
Sucevita Monastery is one of the eight painted churches from Bucovina that are included on the UNESCO World Heritage list. Known for its mesmerizing and inspirational Moldavian art, the monastery marked an end to an era where medieval religious art reached a new level of innovation and creativity in Romania. During the times of the Ottoman Empire, the Moldavian state was asked to destroy its fortresses, however, the local princes fortified the monasteries for darker times. Today, the monastery is a place for inspiration for many artists.

Corvin Castle
Built by Anjou family, Corvin castle is the most stunning gothic style castle in Hunedoara, Romania. Until mid-14 century, the castle served as a fortress which was later turned into a spectacular Transylvania castle by Iancu de Hunedoara. The castle preserves beautiful medieval time rooms, a chapel, Knight Hall, an impressive drawbridge, high buttresses and many antiques from the past. The castle courtyard has a 100 ft well dug into the stone. It is believed that this well was dug by 3 Turkish prisoners who were promised freedom when the task was done. During 14th and 15th century Hunedoara was the main centre for iron extraction and processing. It is a must watch Castle as it is one of the largest castles in Europe.

Poiana Brasov
Among the Romanian ski resorts, Poiana Brasov is a famous one for the tourists. Being Brasov neighbor, it attracts tourist from the European states. With a speedy modernization in 2010, the resort experienced enhancement and enlarged from an area of 50 hectares to 80 hectares. The length of the slope also got raised to 23.9 km from 13.8 km. Among this modernization scheme, snow cannons were also installed on several slopes. During the time of 2013, several sports like alpine skiing, short track, and figure skating were introduced at the Olympic Winter Festival held for youth. This made it an adventure spot among the visitors. In the resort, there are seven snowboard or ski slopes are present, which include Bradul, Stadion, Drumul Rosu, Sulinar, Kanzel, Subteleferic, and Lupului. The traditional mulled wine and tuica are the famous drinks served at the place. The foreign tourists can spend their time in the hotels and enjoy the mouth-watering meals in restaurants hosted by the resort.

Vaser Valley Forestry Railway
When the tourist visits Romania, Vaser Valley Forestry Railway is a famed place which reflects the dimensions of a high-tech ethnic patrimony. This unique place attracts the tourist with its picturesque look. It is an interesting place to explore by traveling through a distance of 60 km in the tapering pathway. The wood-flaming hazed locomotive is one of the most engrossing things about the site. In Romania, it stands the last example, operating with the use of steam locos. To give an amazing experience to the visitors, the steam railway is kept as a tradition. The regular steam operating trains give a fascinating experience while traveling within the track. There is a presence of catering services in the charter trains in case of the unique events.

Wooden Churches of Maramures
The Wooden Churches of Maramures lies in the region of Maramures located in the Northern side of Transylvania, which is a residence to hundreds of Orthodox churches. The architectural designs from the past decades until the running time can be explored in the churches located in Transylvania. The construction of these churches begins in the seventeenth century and continued until the nineteenth century. The Wooden Churches of Maramures are built with an elevated wooden erection. It features a high towering and willowy bell tower, which captures huge attention of the viewers. The bell towers are standing on the western side of the edifice. The cultural topography-based appearance makes it a picturesque place among the tourists. Among the Maramures churches, eight were recorded in the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites during the period of 1999.

Danube Delta
In Europe, the Danube Delta is titled as the “second largest river delta” which makes it a populous place among the visitors. The first largest delta river in Europe is Volga Delta. All over the continent, it is the only river which is best preserved. A great portion of Danube lands of the Tulcea County, Romania. With a surface area of about 4,152 km sq., it is a picturesque river for the tourists. From the 4,152 km sq. area, 3,446 km sq.  Portion lies in Romania. It has the Razim-Sinoe lagoons which are reaching a surface area of 865 km sq. raising the total area of the Danube Delta up to 5,165 km sq. The Delta is falling from the ecosystem of the Pannonian steppe in the region of Eastern Europe. Along with it, it also hosts 23 more pure ecosystems.

Dracula’s Castle
Dracula’s castle refers to the Bran Castle, which lies near the regions of Bran, and is a famous tourist attraction in Romania. The national monument is also a famed landmark which lies in the surrounding area of Brasov. Standing between Wallachia and Transylvania, the castle is a picturesque castle for the visitors. Outside the regions of Romania, Bran Castle is famous as the Dracula’s Castle. Often, it is fallibly regarded as the residence of the main character in the Bram Stoker's Dracula. The eye-catching view of the castle on a hill is soothing to see. It is a unique example of the medieval architectural style which is alternatively named as Mister Valentin’s house. The fortress is at an elevation of 2,500 feet, which makes it look more exquisite. Inside the fortress, a beautiful western tower can be seen with the naked eyes.

Monasteries of Bucovina
In medieval times, the Monasteries of Bucovina remain greatly popular among the tourists. In Romania, the Monasteries of Bucovina are one of the picturesque places among tourists to explore. The eye-catching paintings made by the local painters on the walls of it make it come under the list of famous monuments in Romania. The exterior walls are adorned with the fifteenth and sixteenth-century paint which features magnificent prophets and saints' sketches. These painted walls reveal the life of Jesus with its drawing. Another focus laid by these painted walls is on the angels, demons, hell, and heaven paintings.

The Black Sea Coast
The beautiful water body and sea present between Eastern Europe, Western Asia, the Balkans, and the Caucasus gives major sight-seeing goals. The Black Sea Coast is the only water body in Romania which is a contribution from major divine rivers which include Don, Dnieper, Rioni, Dniester, Danube, and Southern Bug. With an area of 436,400 km sq., the sea is fascinating to explore by the tourists. It has a volume of 547,000 km sq. and the depth is a maximum of 2,212 m. Both the dynamic and active aquatic ecosystems are supported by the sea. The tropic groups, autotrophic algae, diatoms, dinoflagellates can be easily located in the Black Sea.

Mamaia
Mamaia is an exquisite resort which lies on the Romanian Black seashore and a Constanta district. In Romania, Mamaia is considered as the most famed resort among the tourist attractions. Being situated right to the northeast city center of Constanta, it has become a most visited place. The resort lies between the eye-catching Siutghiol Lake and the picturesque Black Sea. In the Northern side, camping sites are open for visitors to enjoy and have fun. There are some private clubs open for the tourists and 4 to 5-star hotels for a comfortable stay.

Sibiu
Sibiu lies in the region of Transylvania in Romania and is at a distance of 275 km to the north-west of Bucharest. In Romania, Sibiu holds a title to be a “famous cultural center.” It was given the title of “European Cultural Capital” for the coming period of 2007. The city also holds the right to administer Paltinis village which is a famed ski resort for the tourists. Sibiu city is one of the most visited places by tourists in Romania. Throughout the country of Romania, Sibiu is famous for its well-preserved ancient sites. The early fortifications in the ancient sites are kept in a sublime way to maintain its beauty and perfection. The main sights visited by tourists are Sibiu Lutheran Cathedral, Large Square Christmas Fair, Azilului Street’s ancient building, Cooper’s Tower, Sibiu City Hall, Liars Bridge, Lesser Square, and so on.

Timisoara
When visiting Romania, Timisoara can’t be missed from the list of tourist attractions. Being the capital of Timis County, the city remains a beautiful place to explore. In Romania, it is titled as the “third largest city” and “Main economic, social, and cultural center” in the western region. During the period of 2016, Timisoara was picked for the title as the “European Culture Capital” for the upcoming period of 2021. When exploring the beauty of Timisoara, the Victory Square pops up as a first place. At night, the view of Victory Square is worth watching. The tourist attractions present in the city include Union Square, St. George Cathedral, Millennium Church, Fabric New Synagogue, and so on.

Sinaia
The beautiful town remains extremely popular in the list of Romania tourist attraction sites. It is a picturesque mountain resort which finds its location in Prahova County, Romania. The Muntenia historical area is graced with the presence of Sinaia resort. The hikers and winter sports lovers should come to the city when visiting Romania. One of the popular sports is downhill skiing which is mostly enjoyed by visitors. The tourist sites are also made with a magnificent attraction and include the Sinaia Monastery, Peles Castle, Sinaia Casino, Pelisor Castle, Franz Joseph, and Saint Anne Cliffs, and the Sinaia train station. George Enescu, a composer from Romania used to stay in the Luminis villa in the city. The adventure, sights include 16 ski slopes which makes it a popular destination for the hikers. The old villa present is giving some aspect of the historical background associated with the place.

Sighisoara
This beautiful city is a picturesque place for many visitors. It lies in the Mures County on the magnificent Tarnava Mare River in Romania. With a population of 28,102 as stated in the 2011 census record, Sighisoara is a historical town. The tourists find it as a perfect destination to plan a well-managed trip into the renowned town. With the presence of a UNESCO World Heritage Site, namely Walled Old Town, it has become a famed city in Romania. The town holds administration, powers for seven villages which include Viilor, Angofa, Aurel Vlaicu, Soromiclea, Venchi, Hetjur, and Rora. The cultural town has become a great tourist attraction place for its towers, churches, civil architectures, and the legendary natives. The church on the hill remains a magnificent architectural style build in the city and reflects the Gothic site in the most beautiful way. Some other famous churches include Leprosy Church, Saint Joseph Roman Catholic church, Monastery Church, and the Orthodox Cathedral of Sighisoara
India
Welcoming you with folded hands, open arms and a cordial ‘Atithi Devo Bhava’ smile, incredible India takes pride in its diversity of people and cuisines, its mishmash of cultures, deep-rooted beliefs and traditions, countless religions and the ancient tales that are too good to miss. Cloaked by the mighty Himalayan ranges in the north and bordered by plenty of golden beaches, India is a glitzy kaleidoscope of beautiful landscapes, misty mountain retreats, simple village life, energetic metropolitans and so much more. Interesting and exotic, captivating and extraordinary, the country has its unique way to make it to your hearts, get your pulse racing while a stunning assortment of places to visit in India will leave you spellbound with travel memories that last forever. India Tourist Attractions beam with delight at their distinctive specialities with the respective Indian states greeting you with their intriguing taglines like “God’s Own Country”, “The Heart of Incredible India”, “The Land of Dawn-lit Mountains” and “India Begins Here”. This enchanting country boasts a diverse topography that is blessed with a myriad of highlights and a gamut of natural and man-made surprises with colourful festivities seen nowhere else in the world. Home to some of the world-famous architectural masterpieces like Taj Mahal (Agra) and over 32 UNESCO World Heritage Sites, prehistoric monuments, biggest wildlife sanctuaries, adventure destinations, less-trodden trekking trails and soul-soothing Ayurveda retreats, everything is quite attractive about India. Discover the Golden Triangle onboard a luxury train, get lost in the aromatic food lanes of Old Delhi or the chaotic yet flourishing streets of New Delhi, wander around the magnificent temples of Odisha and Tamil Nadu, stay in a palace in Rajasthan, opt for rafting or a riverside yoga in Rishikesh, witness the grandeur of Varanasi’s Aarti or Amritsar’s Golden Temple, cruise on Kerala’s backwaters, live in a Kashmir houseboat, party hard or relax well in Goa, breath in the fresh air on hilly slopes of Himachal, hop on a toy train in Darjeeling or just go shopping at bustling bazaars of any of the Indian cities. With all these amazingly unique experiences and more, this south Asian country has conveniently pinned itself on the top of the world tourism map as one of the finest destinations for a holistic vacation.  While we have already given you a mini-tour to some of the Best India Tourist Places and Spots to look at, below is a compiled list that briefly describes the Top India Attractions that come with a “do-not-miss” warning.
Agra Fort
Agra Fort is a historical fort in the city of Agra in India. It was the main residence of the emperors of the Mughal Dynasty until 1638 when the capital was shifted from Agra to Delhi. Before capture by the British the last Indian rulers to have occupied it were the Marathas. In 1983 the Agra fort was inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage site. It is about 2.5 km northwest of its more famo

Taj Mahal
Taj Mahal is on top among the 7 wonders of the world and it is pride of India. Taj Mahal is said to be the symbol of love. In the first look itself anyone can fall in love with this ivory white marble mausoleum. On your trip to India Taj Mahal is a must visit place because if you missed it then you missed the best travel experience in India. This over 400 years old site attracts over 7-8 millions of visitors every year. It is located in the heartland of the city of Agra, India.

Jama Masjid
The Masjid-i Jehan Numa commonly known as the Jama Masjid of Delhi is one of the largest mosques in India. It was built by the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan between 1650 and 1656 at a cost of one million rupees and was inaugurated by Imam Syed Abdul Ghafoor Shah Bukhari from Bukhara.

Chandni Chowk
The Chandni Chowk is one of the oldest and busiest markets in Old Delhi India. It is located close to Old Delhi Railway Station. The Red Fort monument is located at the eastern end of Chandni Chowk. It was built in the 17th century by Mughal Emperor of India Shah Jahan and designed by his daughter Jahanara. The market was once divided by canals to reflect moonlight and remains o

Amer Fort
Amer Fort or Amber Fort is a fort located in Amer Rajasthan India. Amer is a town with an area of 4 square kilometres located 11 kilometres from Jaipur the capital of Rajasthan. The town of Amer and the Amber Fort were originally built by the Meenas and later it was ruled by Raja Man Singh I. Located high on a hill it is the principal tourist attraction in Jaipur. Amer Fort is known for its artis

Amber Fort
Amer Fort or Amber Fort is a fort located in Amer, Rajasthan, India. Amer is a town with an area of 4 square kilometres located 11 kilometres from Jaipur, the capital of Rajasthan. The town of Amer and the Amber Fort were originally built by Raja Man Singh and additions were, later, made by Sawai Jai Singh.

Albert Hall Museum
The Albert Hall Museum in Jaipur is the oldest museum of the state and functions as the state museum of Rajasthan India. The building is situated in Ram Niwas garden outside the city wall opposite New gate and is a fine example of Indo-Saracenic architecture. It is also called the Government Central Museum.

Humayuns Tomb


Gurudwara Bangla Sahib
Gurudwara Bangla Sahib is one of the most prominent Sikh gurdwara or Sikh house of worship in Delhi India and known for its association with the eighth Sikh Guru Guru Har Krishan as well as the holy river inside its complex known as the Sarovar. It was first built as a small shrine by Sikh General Sardar Baghel Singh in 1783 who supervised the construction of nine Sikh shrines in Delh

India Gate
The India Gate is a war memorial located astride the Rajpath on the eastern edge of the ceremonial axis of New Delhi formerly called Kingsway.It stands as a memorial to 70000 soldiers of the British Indian Army who died in between 19141921 in the First World War in France Flanders Mesopotamia Persia East Africa Gallipoli and elsewhere in the Near and the Far East and the thi

Rashtrapati Bhavan
The Rashtrapati Bhavan is the official residence of the President of India located at the Western end of Rajpath in New Delhi India. Rashtrapati Bhavan may refer to only the 340-room main building that has the presidents official residence including reception halls guest rooms and offices also called the mansion it may also refer to the entire 130-hectare Presidential Estate that additionall

Anjuna Beach


Morjim Beach


Ilha Grande


Coco Beach, Goa


Tropical Spice Plantation


Vagator Beach


Anjuna Flea Market
Time-tested beachfront flea market open Wednesdays selling eclectic goods including handmade items.

Aguada Fort
Fort Aguada is a well-preserved seventeenth-century Portuguese fort along with a lighthouse standing in Goa India on Sinquerim Beach overlooking the Arabian Sea. It is an ASI protected Monument of National Importance in Goa.

Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary
Lush park offering acres of greenery walking paths birds leopards elephants & other wildlife.

Dudhsagar Falls
Dudhsagar Falls is a four-tiered waterfall located on the Mandovi River in the Indian state of Goa. It is 60 km from Panaji by road and is located on the Madgaon-Belagavi rail route about 46 km east of Madgaon and 80 km south of Belagavi. Dudhsagar Falls is amongst Indias tallest waterfalls with a height of 310 m and an average width of 30 metres.

The Saturday Night Market


Se Cathedral
The S Catedral de Santa Catarina known as Se Cathedral is the cathedral of the Latin Rite Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Goa and Daman and the seat of the Patriarch of the East Indies. It is located in Old Goa India.

Basilica of Bom Jesus
The Basilica of Bom Jesus is a Roman Catholic basilica located in Goa India and is part of the Churches and convents of Goa UNESCO World Heritage Site. The basilica is located in Old Goa former capital of Portuguese India and holds the mortal remains of St. Francis Xavier.

Galgibaga Beach
Galgibaga Beach also called Galgibagh Beachis is a beach in south Goa. It is one of the lesser-known and cleanest beaches of India. It located in the south of Goa in Canacona region 7 km from famous Palolem Beach

Dona Paula View Point
null

Candolim Beach


Miramar Beach
A bustling area within the capital Panjim, Miramar centers on its namesake beach, a palm-lined strip where shacks sell local fashion, jewelry, and food. Cozy diners offer traditional Goan fare, trendy cafes dish up wood-fired pizzas, and upscale hotel restaurants serve western and Indian dishes. The Goa Science Centre & Planetarium has interactive exhibits, pre-booked demonstrations, and a 3D movie theater.

Mandovi River
The MahadayiMandovi River also known as Mahadayi or Mhadei river is described as the lifeline of the Indian state of Goa. The Mandovi and the Zuari are the two primary rivers in the state of Goa. Mandovi joins with the Zuari at a common creek at Cabo Aguada forming the Mormugao harbour. Panaji the state capital and Old Goa the former capital of Goa are both situated on th

Mangueshi Temple
Shri Mangesh temple is located at Mangeshi Village in Priol Ponda taluk Goa. It is at a distance of 1 km from Mardol close to Nagueshi 21 km from Panaji the capital of Goa and 26 km from Margao.

Khari Baoli


Raj Ghat


hawa Mahal
Delhi is one of the most attracting cities in India for travellers from across the world. One of the busting cities of the world, Delhi is the capital city of India. Qutub Minar is part of Qutub complex in southern part of the city of Delhi. It is a minaret that forms part of Qutub Complex and is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Qutub Minar is quite a tall minaret with the height of 73 meters with five storeys with a base diameter of 14.3 meter which reduces at the top of the minaret to just 2.7 meter.  Qutub Minar has spiral staircase with 379 steps there. Each story of the Qutub Minar is distinct and each is marked by a projecting balcony.

Rajpath Area


Sarnath


Zaveri Bazaar
Zaveri Bazaar is a jewelry market and a major hub for B2B and B2C jewelry industry in Mumbai India. Located at Bhuleshwar in South Mumbai just north of Crawford Market Zaveri Bazaar is a muddle of narrow lanes dotted with hundreds of jewelry shops that sell gems and jewels notably Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri Dwarkadas Chandumal Dhirajlal Bhimji Zaveri & UTZ. 65% of

Mani Bhavan
Mani Bhavan is a museum and historical building dedicated to Gandhi situated at Laburnum Road in the Gamdevi precinct of Mumbai. Mani Bhavan was the focal point of Gandhis political activities in Mumbai between 1917 and 1934.

Chor Bazaar
Chor Bazaar is one of the largest flea markets in India located near Bhendi Bazaar in Grant Road South Mumbai. The area is one of the tourist attractions of Mumbai. The word chor means thief in Marathi and Hindi. According to popular legend if you lose anything in Mumbai you can buy it back from the Chor Bazaar.

Marine Drive
Marine Drive is a 3.6-kilometre-long Promenade along the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Road in South Mumbai in the city of Mumbai India. Often the names Marine Drive and Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Road are used interchangeably to refer to this 3.9km stretch. The road and promenade were constructed by late philanthropist Bhagojisheth Keer and Pallonji Mistry. It i

Malabar Hill
Malabar Hill is a hillock and upmarket residential neighbourhood in South Mumbai Maharashtra India. Malabar Hill is the most exclusive residential area in Mumbai. It is home to several business tycoons and film personalities. Notable residents include Adi Godrej Cyrus Broacha the Birla family Shashi Ruia & family Pallonji Mistry the Jindal family the Petit family etc.

Fort Kochi Beach
Fort Kochi beach is a beach along the Arabian Sea situated in Fort Kochi in the city of Kochi in South India Kerala state.

Chennamangalam Jewish Synagogue


Mattancherry Palace
The Mattancherry Palace is a Portuguese palace popularly known as the Dutch Palace in Mattancherry Kochi in the Indian state of Kerala which features Kerala murals depicting portraits and exhibits of the Rajas of Kochi. The palace was included in the tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Chinese Fishing Nets


Dashaswamedh Ghat


Shri Durga Temple
Sri Durga temple is Australias biggest Durga Mata temple situated in lush green surrundings and is 30 minutes drive from city centre.

Jews Street


Alleppey Beach


Lake View Point


Kovalam Beach
Kerela is one of the most sought after tourist destinations not just in India but in entire Asia. Kerela is unique in the sense that it is networked by 44 rivers and it has nearly 600 KM of Arabian Sea Shoreline. Kerela is known for many things. It’s culture and tradition, its classical dance Kathakali, its Martial arts, its Ayurveda and siddha, it’s exotic landscapes and eyegasmic view, its superb climate and backwaters all combined together make Kerela a must go to travel destination in India. Kovalam beach in kerela is a favorite spot for tourists for decades. Kovalam is known for coconut trees as the name itself means a grove of coconut trees.

Bharat Mata Temple


Banaras Hindu University


Khajuraho
Khajuraho has been a place of interest for visitors for hundreds of years. This is one of the most popular travel destinations in Madhya Pradesh. This is famous for one of the finest art works on ancient temples here. These art works are visual delight which depict great detail of various forms like meditation, spiritual, kinship, wrestling and most famous for erotic art.

Best Time to Visit Khajuraho: Though you can visit Khajuraho any time of the year, yet time period between July and March is considered the best time to visit Khajuraho.

How to Reach Khajuraho: You can reach Khajurao by air, rail and road. Khajuraho civil aerodrome is only 2 KM away from city center of Khajuraho and you can take air route from Delhi, Mumbai, Indore, Hyderabad and Varanasi. You can also take train route up to Khajuraho railway station. Road route is also well connected to Khajuraho.

Attractions in Khajuraho: Khajuraho is very popular tourist attraction for its temples and finest art work on these temples. Some of the very popular attractions of Kahjuraho are Lakshmana Temple, Kandariya Mahadeva Temple, Devi Jagdamba Temple, Parsavnath Temple, Chaunsat Yogini, SEL show and Panna National Park.

Karikkakom Devi Temple
Karikkakom Sree Chamundi Devi Temple or Karikkakom Devi Temple is a Hindu temple dedicated to Goddess Chamundi located in Thiruvananthapuram India. This ancient temple more than 600 years old is situated at Karikkakom around 7 km north of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple in Thiruvananthapuram. The temple enshrines a Panchaloha idol of the goddess Karikkakathamma  a

Padmanabhapuram Palace
Padmanabhapuram Palace also known as Kalkulam Palace is a Travancore era palace located in Padmanabhapuram in the Kanyakumari district of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The palace is owned controlled and maintained by the government of the neighbouring state of Kerala.

Vivekananda Rock Memorial
Vivekananda Rock Memorial is a popular tourist monument in Vavathurai Kanyakumari India. It was built in 1970 in honour of Swami Vivekananda who is said to have attained enlightenment on the rock. According to local legends it was on this rock that Goddess Kumari performed tapas in devotion of lord Shiva. A meditation hall known as Dhyana Mandapam is also attached to the me

Mahatma Gandhi Memorial


Jantar Mantar


Hawa Mahal
Hawa Mahal is a palace in Jaipur India approximately 300 kilometers from the capital city of Delhi. Built from red and pink sandstone the palace sits on the edge of the City Palace Jaipur and extends to the Zenana or womens chambers.

Jag Mandir
Jag Mandir is a palace built on an island in the Lake Pichola. It is also called the Lake Garden Palace. The palace is located in Udaipur city in the Indian state of Rajasthan. Its construction is credited to three Maharanas of the Sisodia Rajputs of Mewar kingdom. The construction of the palace was started in 1551 by Maharana Amar Singh continued by Maharana Karan Singh and finally co

Jagdish Temple
Jagdish Temple is a large Hindu temple in the middle of Udaipur in Rajasthan just outside the royal palace. It has been in continuous worship since 1651. A big tourist attraction the temple was originally called the temple of Jagannath Rai but is now called Jagdish-ji. It is a major monument in Udaipur.

Sahastra Bahu Temples
The Sahasra Bahu temples or Sasbahu Temples at Nagda Rajasthan are a pair of late 10th-century Hindu temples dedicated to Vishnu. They share a platform facing the temple tank and are similar in style but one is rather larger than the other. The larger one is s

Lake Pichola
Lake Pichola situated in Udaipur city in the Indian state of Rajasthan is an artificial fresh water lake created in the year 1362 AD named after the nearby Picholi village. It is one of the several contiguous lakes and developed over the last few centuries in and around the famous Udaipur city. The lakes around Udaipur were primarily created by building dams to meet the drinking wate

City Palace Jaipur
The City Palace Jaipur was established at the same time as the city of Jaipur by Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh II who moved his court to Jaipur from Amber in 1727. Jaipur is the present-day capital of the state of Rajasthan and until 1949 the City Palace was the ceremonial and administrative seat of the Maharaja of Jaipur. The Palace was also the location of religious and cultural events a

Itmad-ud-Daula
Tomb of Itimd-ud-Daulah is a Mughal mausoleum in the city of Agra in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. Often described as a jewel box sometimes called the Bachcha Taj the tomb of Itimd-ud-Daulah is often regarded as a draft of the Taj Mahal.

Ram Bagh
The Aram Bagh is the oldest Mughal Garden in India originally built by the Mughal Emperor Babur in 1528 located about five kilometers northeast of the Taj Mahal in Agra India. Babur was temporarily buried there before being interred in Kabul.

Jama Mosque Fatehpur Sikri
The Jama Masjid is a 17th-century mosque in the World Heritage Site of Fatehpur Sikri in India. The Mughal emperor Akbar personally directed the building of the Jmi Masjid which stretches some 540 feet in length. The mosque also known as thThe Jama Masjid is a 17th-century mosque in the World Heritage Site of Fatehpur Sikri in India. The Mughal emperor Akbar personally directed the building of the Jmi Masjid which stretches some 540 feet in length. The mosque also known as the Friday Mosque is one of the largest mosques in India and is a most sought after pilgrimage site by the devotees. It is also one of the most visited tourist destinations in Agra district. Some of the designs of the mosque reflect beautiful Iranian architecture.

Dashashwamedh Ghat
Dashashwamedh Ghat is the main ghat in Varanasi on the Ganga River. It is located close to Vishwanath Temple and is probably the most spectacular ghat. Two Hindu legends are associated with it according to one Brahma created it to welcome Shiva and in another Brahma sacrificed ten horses during Dasa-Ashwamedha yajna performed here.

Bharat Mata Temple


Shantivan


Red Fort
The Red Fort is a historic fort in the city of Delhi in India that served as the main residence of the Mughal Emperors. Emperor Shah Jahan commissioned construction of the Red Fort on 12 May 1638 when he decided to shift his capital from Agra to Delhi. Originally red and white its design is credited to architect Ustad Ahmad Lahori who also constructed the Taj Mahal. It was

Agrasen ki Baoli
Agrasen ki Baoli designated a protected monument by the Archaeological Survey of India under the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act of 1958 is a 60-meter long and 15-meter wide historical step well on Hailey Road near Connaught Place Jantar Mantar in New Delhi India. Although there are no known historical records to prove who built Agrasen

qutub Minar
Golden temple is known to all across the world. Sri Harmandir sahib or Sri Darbar sahib is popularly known as Golden temple. Located in the Amritsar city in Punjab, India, Golden temple is a sacred place. This is the holiest Gurudwara of Sikkhism. Golden temple is visited by millions of pilgrims and travellers from across the world every year. People go to Golden temple for faith, for exploring and for spending time in a beautiful complex.

Wagah Border


Rock Garden of Chandigarh
The Rock Garden of Chandigarh is a sculpture garden in Chandigarh Punjab and Haryana India. It is also known as Nek Chands Rock Garden after its founder Nek Chand Saini a government official who started the garden secretly in his spare time in 1957. Today it is spread over an area of 40 acres. It is completely built from industrial and home waste and discarded items.

Lotus Temple
The Lotus Temple located in Delhi India is a Bah House of Worship that was dedicated in December 1986. Notable for its flowerlike shape it has become a prominent attraction in the city. Like all Bah Houses of Worship the Lotus Temple is open to all regardless of religion or any other qualification. The building is composed of 27 free-standing marble-clad petals arranged in c

Taj Mahal
Jallianwala Bagh is a historic garden and memorial of national importance in Amritsar India preserved in the memory of those wounded and killed in the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre that occurred on the site on the festival of Baisakhi 13 April 1919. It houses a museum gallery and a number of memorial structures.

Auroville


Sri Aurobindo Ashram


Gangaikonda Cholapuram


Shri Airavatesvara Temple


Nageswaran Temple


Kasi Viswanathar Temple


Divya Desam Arulmigu Sarangapani Swamy Temple


Brihadeeswara Temple


Hulimavu


Kanha Tiger Reserve


Dumna Nature Reserve Park
The Dumna Nature Reserve of Jabalpur Municipal Corporation is spread over nearly 1800 acres of forested land on a plateau about 40 meters above Jabalpur town. It was transferred to the Municipal Committee of Jubbulpore by the provincial government to act as the catchment area for the Khandari lake. The construction of Khandari Dam materialized in February 1883 under J.H. Mo

Chitragupta Temple
The Chitragupta temple is an 11th-century temple of Surya in the Khajuraho town of Madhya Pradesh India. Architecturally it is very similar to the nearby Jagadambi temple.

Chausath Yogini Temple
The Chausath Yogini temple is a ruined Devi temple in the Khajuraho town of Madhya Pradesh India. Dated to the late 9th century it is the oldest surviving temple at Khajuraho. Unlike the Chausath Yogini temples at other places it has a rectangular plan.

Matangeshwar Temple
The Matangeshvara temple is a Shiva temple in the Khajuraho town of Madhya Pradesh India. It is located among the Western group of temples. Among the Chandela-era monuments of Khajuraho it is the only Hindu temple that is still actively used for worship.

Lakshmana Temple
The Lakshmana Temple is a 10th-century Hindu temple built by Yashovarman located in Khajuraho India. It is dedicated to Vaikuntha Vishnu - an aspect of Vishnu.

Varaha Temple
The Varaha Temple at Khajuraho enshrines a colossal monolithic image of Varaha the boar incarnation of Lord Vishnu. This temple depicts Varaha as a purely animal form. The temple is located in the Western Group of Temple Complex Khajuraho Group of Monuments a World Heritage Site inscribed by UNESCO in 1986 in Khajuraho. Khajuraho is a small village in Chattarpur Di

Vishvanatha Temple Khajuraho
The Vishvanatha Temple is a Hindu temple in Madhya Pradesh India. It is located among the western group of Khajuraho Monuments a UNESCO World Heritage site. The temple is dedicated to Shiva who is also known as Vishvanatha meaning Lord of the Universe.

Devi Jagadambi Temple
Devi Jagadambika Temple or Jagadambika Temple is one of a group of about 25 temples at Khajuraho Madhya Pradesh India. Khajuraho is a World Heritage Site. The temples of Khajuraho were built by the rulers of the Chandela dynasty between the 10th and the 12th centuries.

Haveli Dharampura


Satpura Tiger Reserve


Pachmarhi Biosphere Reserve


Bori Wildlife Sanctuary


Teli ka Mandir
Teli ka Mandir also known as Telika Temple is a Hindu temple located within the Gwalior Fort in Madhya Pradesh India. Dedicated to Shiva Vishnu and Matrikas it has been variously dated between the early 8th and early 9th century CE.

Jai Vilas Mahal
The Jai Vilas Mahal also known as the Jai Vilas Palace is a nineteenth century palace in Gwalior India. It was established in 1874 by Maharajadhiraj Shrimant Jayajirao Scindia Alijah Bahadur the Maharaja of Gwalior. While the major part of the palace is now the Jiwajirao Scindia Museum opened to the public in 1964 a part of it is still the residence of his descendants the former royal

Gwalior Fort
Gwalior Fort is a hill fort near Gwalior Madhya Pradesh India. The fort has existed at least since the 10th century and the inscriptions and monuments found within what is now the fort campus indicate that it may have existed as early as the beginning of the 6th century. The fort has been controlled by a number of different rulers in its history.

Bhimbetka rock shelters
The Bhimbetka rock shelters are an archaeological site in central India that spans the prehistoric Paleolithic and Mesolithic periods as well as the historic period. It exhibits the earliest traces of human life in India and evidence of Stone Age starting at the site in Acheulian times. It is located in the Raisen District in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh about 45 kilometres south-east of Bho

Vidisha Museum
Vidisha Museum or Vidisha District Museum is the main museum of the city of Vidisha ancient Besnagar. The museum has many sculptures terracottas and coins especially from the 9th to the 10 th century CE as well as Harappan art.

Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalaya
Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalaya or National Museum of Humankind or Museum of Man is an anthropology museum located in Bhopal India to present an integrated story of the evolution of man and culture with special reference to India. It spreads over an area of about 200 acres on the Shyamla Hills in the city. This museum depicts the story of mankind in time and spa

Taj-ul-Masajid
The Taj-ul-Masajid or Tj-ul-Masjid is a mosque situated in Bhopal Madhya Pradesh India. It is the largest mosque in India and one of the largest mosques in Asia.

Sanchi Stupa No. 2
The Stupa No. 2 at Sanchi also called Sanchi II is one of the oldest existing Buddhist stupas in India and part of the Buddhist complex of Sanchi in Madhya Pradesh. It is of particular interest since it has the earliest known important displays of decorative reliefs in India probably anterior to the reliefs at the Mahabodhi Temple in Bodh Gaya or the reliefs of Bharhut. It displays what

Elephanta Island Maharashtra
Elephanta Island is one of a number of islands in Mumbai Harbour east of Mumbai India.

Gateway of India
The Gateway of India is an arch-monument built in the early twentieth century in the city of Mumbai in the Indian state of Maharashtra. It was erected to commemorate the landing in December 1911 at Apollo Bunder Mumbai of King-Emperor George V and Queen-Empress Mary the first British monarch to visit India. At the time of the royal visit the gateway was not yet built and a card

Nariman Point
Nariman Point is a business district in Downtown Mumbai. Formerly the prominent business district on Indias west coast Nariman Point yielded that status to Mumbais Bandra-Kurla Complex in 2010. Prior to Nariman Points development Mumbais business centre was at Ballard Estate which  like Nariman Point also  was built on land reclaimed from the sea.

Hathee Singh Jain Temple


Mahudi Jain Temple
Mahudi Jain Temple is situated in Mahudi town in Mansa taluka of Gandhinagar district Gujarat. It is a pilgrimage centre of Jains and other communities visiting temple of Jain deity Ghantakarna Mahavir and Padmaprabhu Jain Temple. It was known as Madhupuri historically.

Modhera
Modhera is a town in Mehsana district of Gujarat India. The town is well known for the Sun Temple of Chaulukya era. The town is located on the bank of river Pushpavati.

Shankheshwar Jain Temple
The Shankheshwar Jain Temple is located in the center of Shankheshwar town of Patan district Gujarat India. The temple is dedicated to Parshwanath and is an important place of pilgrimage for the followers of Jainism.

Sidi Saiyyed Mosque
The Sidi Saiyyed Mosque popularly known as Sidi Saiyyid ni Jali locally built in 1572-73 AD is one of the most famous mosques of Ahmedabad a city in the state of Gujarat India.

Sun Temple Modhera
The Sun Temple is a Hindu temple dedicated to the solar deity Surya located at Modhera village of Mehsana district Gujarat India. It is situated on the bank of the river Pushpavati. It was built after 1026-27 CE during the reign of Bhima I of the Chaulukya dynasty. No worship is offered now and is protected monument maintained by Archaeological Survey of India. The temple complex has thre

Swaminarayan Museum
The Shree Swaminarayan Museum is a museum in Ahmedabad Gujarat India. It houses of three thousand personal objects of Swaminarayan who is believed to be a manifestation of god in Swaminarayan Hinduism. It is a project undertaken to protect God Swaminarayans objects of Prasadi which can be viewed by all people for darshan.

Hutheesing Jain Temple
Hutheesing Temple is the best known Jain temple in Ahmedabad in Gujarat India. It was constructed in 1848.

Sabarmati Ashram
Sabarmati Ashram is located in the Sabarmati suburb of Ahmedabad Gujarat adjoining the Ashram Road on the banks of the River Sabarmati 4.0 miles from the town hall. This was one of the many residences of Mahatma Gandhi who lived at Sabarmati and Sevagram when he was not travelling across India or in prison. He lived in Sabarmati or Wardha for a total of twelve years with his

Calico Museum of Textiles
The Calico Museum of Textiles is located in the city of Ahmedabad in the state of Gujarat in western India. The museum is managed by the Sarabhai Foundation.

Fashion Street


Mangaldas Market


Rann Riders


Ranthambore National Park
Ranthambore national park is a very popular and well known national park in India. Located in Rajasthan, Ranthambore is popular as one of the best wildlife attractions in India. Ranthambore is in SawaiMadhopur district, only 180 Km away from Jaipur, the capital city of Rajasthan.  

Best Time to Visit Ranthambore: You can visit this amazing wildlife park anytime of the year. However, you can avoid May and June, two hotter months of the year.

How to Reach Ranthambore: Jaipur is the nearest airport from Ranthambore. From Jaipur you can reach the park by road or you can also travel by train up to nearest railway station Sawai Madhopur.

Attractions in Ranthambore: Ranthambore has lot of attractions for everyone, especially for wildlife lovers. This park is super popular for tigers in their natural habitat. You can also do bird watching and see other animals. Ranthambore is also a famous heritage site.

City Palace Museum


City Palace Udaipur
City Palace Udaipur is a palace complex situated in the city of Udaipur in the Indian state of Rajasthan. It was built over a period of nearly 400 years with contributions from several rulers of the Mewar dynasty. Its construction began in 1553 started by Maharana Udai Singh II of the Sisodia Rajput family as he shifted his capital from the erstwhile Chittor to the new found city of Udaip

Crystal Gallery


Bandhavgarh Fort
The Bandhavgarh Fort is situated in Bandhavgarh in Umaria district of Madhya Pradesh India. It is located on the Bandhavgarh hill rising 811 meters above sea level at the centre of the Bandhavgarh National Park. It is surrounded by many smaller hills separated by gently sloping valleys. These valleys end in small swampy meadows locally known as bohera. The fort is also home to man

Suramya Park


Jatashankar Temple


Dhoopgarh


Mahadev Temple Tambdi Surla
Mahadeva Temple Tambdi Surla is a 12th-century Shaivite temple dedicated to Lord Shiva and an active place of Hindu worship. It is the only structural temple of the Kadamba period to survive the destructive violence of religious intolerance during Muslim and Portuguese occupations of Goan territory. It is an ASI protected Monument of National Importance in Goa.

San Thome Museum


Lotus Temple
The Lotus Temple located in Delhi India is a Bah House of Worship that was dedicated in December 1986. Notable for its flowerlike shape it has become a prominent attraction in the city. Like all Bah Houses of Worship the Lotus Temple is open to all regardless of religion or any other qualification. The building is composed of 27 free-standing marble-clad petals arranged in c

Akshardham Temple
Swaminarayan Akshardham (New Delhi) is a Hindu temple and spiritual-cultural campus in New Delhi India. The temple is close to the border with Noida. Also referred to as Akshardham Temple or Akshardham Delhi the complex displays millennia of traditional and modern Hindu culture spirituality and architecture.

Taj Mahal
The Taj Mahal is an ivory-white marble mausoleum on the right bank of the river Yamuna in the Indian city of Agra. It was commissioned in 1632 by the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan to house the tomb of his favourite wife Mumtaz Mahal it also houses the tomb of Shah Jahan himself. The tomb is the centrepiece of a 17 hectare complex which includes a mosque and a guest house and is set in formal gardens bounded on three sides by a crenellated wall.

Taj Museum


Gurudwara Pathar Sahib
Located in the periphery of Leh on the Leh-Kargil road is the Gurudwara Pathar Sahib which was constructed in memory and honour of Guru Nanak. This place of worship is associated with a very important event in the history of the Sikh religion.

Pangong Tso
Pangong Tso or Pangong Lake is an endorheic lake spanning eastern Ladakh and West Tibet situated at an elevation of 4,225 m. It is 134 km long and divided into five sublakes, called Pangong Tso, Tso Nyak, Rum Tso and Nyak Tso.

Nubra Valley
Nubra is a subdivision and a tehsil in the Indian union territory of Ladakh. Its inhabited areas form a tri-armed valley cut by the Nubra and Shyok rivers. Its Tibetan name Ldumra means the valley of flowers. Demands have been raised and BJP has hinted at creation of Nubra as a new district.

Kashi Vishwanath Temple


Adi Shankaracharya Samadhi


Bheem Pul
Bheem Pul is situated opposite to the Vyas Gufa in Mana Village. It is a huge rock which acts as a natural bridge across the Saraswati River. The Saraswati River flows with force in between the two mountains and joins the Alaknanda River. It is believed that Bheem one of the five Pandavas threw a huge rock in order to make a path to join the two mountains so that Draupadi could easil

Gangotri Glacier
Gangotri Glacier is located in Uttarkashi District Uttarakhand India in a region bordering Tibet. This glacier one of the primary sources of the Ganges is one of the largest in the Himalayas with an estimated volume of over 27 cubic kilometers. The glacier is about 30 kilometres long and 2 to 4 km wide. Around the glacier are the peaks of the Gangotri Group including several peaks not

Binsar Mahadev Shiv Mandir


Group of Monuments at Mahabalipuram
The Group of Monuments at Mahabalipuram is a collection of 7th- and 8th-century CE religious monuments in the coastal resort town of Mahabalipuram Tamil Nadu India and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It is on the Coromandel CoaThe Group of Monuments at Mahabalipuram is a collection of 7th- and 8th-century CE religious monuments in the coastal resort town of Mahabalipuram Tamil Nadu India and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It is on the Coromandel Coast of the Bay of Bengal about 60 kilometres south of Chennai.

Shore Temple
The Shore Temple is so named because it overlooks the shore of the Bay of Bengal. It is located near Chennai in Tamil Nadu. It is a structural temple built with blocks of granite dating from the 8th century AD. At the time of its creation the site was a busy port during the reign of Narasimhavarman II of the Pallava dynasty. As one of the Group of Monuments at Mahabalipuram it has bee

Besant Nagar
Besant Nagar is an upscale exclusive residential neighborhood in South Chennai India. It is located along the coast of Bay of Bengal. This part of Chennai is inhabited by many famous personalities and highly affluent citizens. The neighborhood is peppered Besant Nagar is an upscale exclusive residential neighborhood in South Chennai India. It is located along the coast of Bay of Bengal. This part of Chennai is inhabited by many famous personalities and highly affluent citizens. The neighborhood is peppered with many upmarket restaurants cafes and boutiques. The main attraction is Elliots Beach named after Edward Elliot the former Governor of Madras. It forms the end-point of the Marina Beach shore.

Shey Palace
The Shey Monastery or Gompa and the Shey Palace complex are structures located on a hillock in Shey 15 kilometres to the south of Leh in Ladakh northern India on the Leh-Manali road. Shey was the summer capital of Ladakh in the past. It contains a huge Shakyamuni Buddha statue. It is the second largest Buddha statue in Ladakh.

Prayer Wheel


Hundar Village
Hundar is a village in the Leh district of Ladakh India famous for Sand dunes Bactrian camels. It is located in the Nubra tehsil on the banks of the Shyok River. The Hunder Monastery is located here. Hundar was once the capital of the former Nubra kingdom. There are several ruined buildings including the ruins of the Kings palace the Langchen Khar. There is a fort at the top of the hill called Gula. Hundar also has two Buddhist temples the white temple and the red temple. Between Hundar and Diskit lie sand dunes.

Turtuk Village
Turtuk is a village in the Indian union territory of Ladakh and the headquarters of an eponymous community development block. It is a small village sandwiched between Karakorum Range and Himalayas Mountains. Turtuk is one of the northernmost villages of India second only to Murgo Village the northernmost village of India. It is situated in the Leh district of the Nubra Valley. Turtuk is 205 km away from Leh the district headquarters and 2.5 km from the Line of Control between India and Pakistan.

Changla Pass
The Chang La is a high mountain pass in Ladakh at an elevation of 5360 m or 17590 ft in the Ladakh Ranges between Leh and the Shyok River valley. It is one of the highest motor-able road in the world. The worlds highest research station established by the Defence Research and Development Organisation is functional in Chang La at a height of 17664 ft.

Thiksy Monastry
Thikse Gompa or Thikse Monastery is a gompa affiliated with the Gelug sect of Tibetan Buddhism. It is located on top of a hill in Thiksey approximately 19 kilometres east of Leh in Ladakh India. It is noted for its resemblance to the Potala Palace in Lhasa Tibet and is the largest gompa in central Ladakh notably containing a separate set of buildings for female renunciates that has been the source of significant recent building and reorganisation.

Indus & Zanskar River
Indus river is originated from the great Himalayan ranges and Zanskar river originates from Zanskar ranges. Zanskar meets Indus in Nimmu valley from the north-east. This is a scenic view for the visitors and they find it fascinating to mark both the rivers even after their confluence.

India Gate
The India Gate (formerly known as the All India War Memorial) is a war memorial located astride the Rajpath on the eastern edge of the ceremonial axis of New Delhi formerly called Kingsway. It stands as a memorial to 90000 soldiers of the British Indian Army who died in between 1914 and 1921 in the First World War in France Flanders Mesopotamia Persia East Africa Gallipoli and elsewhere in the Near and the Far East and the Third Anglo-Afghan War. 13300 servicemens names including some soldiers and officers from the United Kingdom are inscribed on the gate. Designed by Sir Edwin Lutyens the gate evokes the architectural style of the memorial arch such as the Arch of Constantine in Rome and is often compared to the Arc de Triomphe in Paris and the Gateway of India in Mumbai.

Amer Fort
Amer Fort or Amber Fort is a fort located in Amer Rajasthan India. Amer is a town with an area of 4 square kilometres located 11 kilometres from Jaipur the capital of Rajasthan. The town of Amer and the Amber Fort were originally built by the Meenas Amer Fort or Amber Fort is a fort located in Amer Rajasthan India. Amer is a town with an area of 4 square kilometres located 11 kilometres from Jaipur the capital of Rajasthan. The town of Amer and the Amber Fort were originally built by the Meenas dateAugust 2020 and later it was ruled by Raja Man Singh I. Located high on a hill it is the principal tourist attraction in Jaipur. Amer Fort is known for its artistic style elements. With its large ramparts and series of gates and cobbled paths the fort overlooks Maota Lake which is the main source of water for the Amer Palace.

Rock Garden of Chandigarh
The Rock Garden of Chandigarh is a sculpture garden for rock enthusiasts in Chandigarh India. It is also known as Nek Chand Sainis Rock Garden of Nathupur after its founder Nek Chand Saini a government official who started building the garden secretly in his spare time in 1957.

Jakhoo
Jakhoo Temple is an ancient temple in Shimla dedicated to the Hindu deity Hanuman. It is situated on Jakhoo Hill Shimlas highest peak 2.5 km east of the Ridge at a height of 2455 m above sea level. Each year a festival is held on Dussehra before 1972 t

Solang Valley
Solang Valley derives its name from combination of words Solang and Nallah. It is a side valley at the top of the Kullu Valley in Himachal Pradesh India 14 km northwest of the resort town Manali on the way to Rohtang Pass and is known for its summer and winter sport conditions. The sports most commonly offered are parachuting paragliding skating and zorbing. Giant slopes of lawn comprise Solang Valley and provide its reputation as a popular ski resort. A few ski agencies offering courses and equipment reside here and operate only during winters. Solag valley is well known for the tea sold there.

Gurudwara Sahib Manikaran
Manikaran is located in the Parvati Valley on river Parvati northeast of Bhuntar in the Kullu District of Himachal Pradesh. It is at an altitude of 1760 m and is located 4 km ahead of Kasol and about 45 km from Kullu and about 35 km from Bhuntar. This small town attracts tourists visiting Manali and Kullu to its hot springs and pilgrim centres. An experimental geothermal energy plant has also been set up here.

The Chail Palace
The Chail Palace Built in 1891 the Maharajas palace is set in approximately 75 acres and has a truly regal setting with spectacular views.

Bhagsunag Waterfall
Bhagsunag is a village near Mcleodganj in Dharamshala district Himachal Pradesh. It is popular for the Bhagsunag waterfall and the ancient Bhagsunag Temple. Tourists need to trek to reach the waterfall. The height of this waterfall is approximately 20 meters and it is an absolute marvel to look at especially during the monsoon.

The Ridge Shimla
The Ridge road is a large open space located in the center of Shimla the capital city of Himachal Pradesh India. The Ridge is the hub of all cultural activities of Shimla. It is situated along the Mall Road which is the famous shopping center of Shimla. Most major places of Shimla like Sanjauli Snowdown Mall Jakhoo hill Oakover Kali Bari Annadale etc. are connected through the Ridge.

Hidimba Devi Temple
Hidimba Devi Temple locally known as Dhungari Temple also known variously as the Hadimba Temple is located in Manali a hill station in the State of Himachal Pradesh in north India. It is an ancient cave temple dedicated to Hidimbi Devi wife of Bhima a figure in the Indian epic Mahabharata. The temple is surrounded by a cedar forest called Dhungiri Van Vihar at the foot of the Himalayas. The sanctuary is built over a huge rock jutting out of the ground which was worshiped as an image of the deity. The structure was built in 1553 by Maharaja Bahadur Singh.

Dalai Lama Temple Complex


Dainkund Peak


Marari Beach
Marari Beach is a beach at Mararikulam village in Alappuzha District of Kerala India 11 km from Alappuzha town. Marari Beach is being increasingly preferred by travelers as an alternative to its more popular counterpart- Kovalam in the South. Tourists can cover the key highlights of Kerala including the Port town of Cochin the tea plantations of Munnar the wildlife in Periyar the houseboats on the backwaters in Alleppey and end their stay at Marari where they can enjoy the beaches before flying out of Cochin again- instead of having to travel down south to Kovalam for the beaches.

Kadmat Beach


Snorkeling & Scuba


Gateway of India
The Gateway of India is an arch-monument built in the early twentieth century in the city of Mumbai in the Indian state of Maharashtra. It was erected to commemorate the landing in December 1911 at Apollo Bunder Mumbai of King-Emperor George V and Queen-Empress Mary the first British monarch to visit India. At the time of the royal visit the gateway was not yet built and a card

Candolim Beach


Basilica of Bom Jesus
The Basilica of Bom Jesus is a Roman Catholic basilica located in Goa India and is part of the Churches and convents of Goa UNESCO World Heritage Site. The basilica is located in Old Goa former capital of Portuguese India and holds the mortal remains of St. Francis Xavier.

Dal Lake
Dal is a lake in Srinagar the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir. It is an urban lake which is the second largest in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. It is the most visited place in Srinagar by tourists and locals. View of Dal Lake are completely different in 4 seasons. It is integral to tourism and recreation in Kashmir and is named the Lake of Flowers Jewel in the crown of Kashmir or Srinagars Jewel. The lake is also an important source for commercial operations in fishing and water plant harvesting. The shore line of the lake about 15.5 kilometres (9.6 mi) is encompassed by a boulevard lined with Mughal era gardens parks houseboats and hotels. Scenic views of the lake can be witnessed from the shore line Mughal gardens such as Shalimar Bagh and Nishat Bagh built during the reign of Mughal Emperor Jahangir and from houseboats cruising along the lake in the colourful shikaras. During the winter season the temperature sometimes reaches freezing the lake.

Betab Valley


Manasbal Lake
Manasbal Lake is located in Ganderbal District in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir in India. The name Manasbal is said to be a derivative of the Lake Manasarovar. Lake is encircled by three villages viz. Jarokbal Kondabal and Gratbal. The large growt

Shankaracharya Temple
Shankaracharya Temple or Jyeshteshwara Temple is a Hindu temple situated on top of the Shankaracharya Hill on the Zabarwan Range in Srinagar Jammu and Kashmir India. It is dedicated to Lord Shiva. The temple is at a height of 1000 feet above the valley floor and overlooks the city of Srinagar. On festivals such as Herath as Maha Shivratri is known as in the region the temple is visited by Kashmiri Hindus. The temple is also considered as a Buddhist icon and with the hill which has had multiple names over the centuries is connected to the Persian and Muslim faith as well. The temple and adjacent land is a monument of national importance centrally protected under the Archaeological Survey of India. Dharmarth Trust has managed the temple since the 19th century along with others in the region.[5] Karan Singh is the sole chairperson trustee.

Gulmarg Gondola
Gulmarg Gondola in Gulmarg Jammu and Kashmir union territory of India is a high altitude cable car Higher lines include the Dagu Glacier Gondola.The two-stage gondola lift ferries about 600 people per hour to and from Kongdoori Mountain a shoulder of nearby Apharwat Peak. The ropeway project is a joint venture of the Jammu and Kashmir government and French firm Pomagalski. The first stage transfers from the Gulmarg resort at 2600 m to Kongdoori Station in the bowl-shaped Kongdori valley. The second stage of the ropeway which has 36 cabins and 18 towers takes skiers to a height of 3747 m on Kongdoori Mountain a shoulder of nearby Afarwat Peak (4200 m. The second stage was completed in a record time of about two years at a cost of 180000000 Indian Rupees and opened on 28 May 2005. The French company had also built the first phase of the gondola project connecting Gulmarg to Kongdoori in 1998.

Sonmarg
Yusmarg or Yousmarg is a hill station in the western part of Kashmir Valley in the Indian union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. It is situated 47 km south of Srinagar the capital of the state. Yousmarg provides space for beautiful landscapes young pine nurseries green pastures and heart touching lotic and lentic water bodies. Nilnag Doodhganga and a nascently created artificial dam adds more to the beauty of the meadows.Nature has bestowed Yoususmarg with pleasant flora and fauna. Among fauna locals claim that they often sight wolves bears apes cats aves of various types. Among aquatic fauna Schizothoraxic is abundant one in catch.

Nishat Bagh
Nishat Bagh is a terraced Mughal garden built on the eastern side of the Dal Lake close to Srinagar in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir India. It is the second largest Mughal garden in the Kashmir Valley. Shalimar Bagh which is also located on the bank of the Dal Lake. Nishat Bagh is of Persian origin intelligible in Kashmiri and Urdu as well and means the Garden of Joy Garden of Gladness and Garden of Delight. Located on the bank of the Dal Lake with the Zabarwan Mountains as its backdrop Nishat Bagh is a garden with views of the lake beneath the Pir Panjal mountain range. The Bagh was designed and built in 1633 by Asif Khan elder brother of Nur Jehan. An anecdote is told of the jealousy of the Emperor Shah Jahan on beholding such a delightful garden which led to the abandonment of the garden for some time.

Nainital Lake
Nainital also known as Naini Lake is a natural freshwater body situated amidst the township of Nainital in Kumaon. It is tectonic in origin and is kidney shaped or crescent shaped and has an outfall at the southeastern end. Nainital along with other lakes of Kumaon is integral to tourism and recreation in Kumaon. The lake is also an integral part of Kumaoni folklore. Nainital Lake in the Nainital district often called the Lake District of India is one of the four important lakes of Kumaon the other three are Sattal Lake Bhimtal Lake and Naukuchiyatal Lake.

Maa Naina Devi Temple Nainital
In Nainital  the Naina Devi Temple is situated on the northern bank of the Naini Lake . The temple was destroyed by a landslide in 1880. Later it was rebuilt. Here the Shakti form of Sati is worshipped. The temple has two eyes which represent Naina Devi. About Naini Lake it is believed that when Shiva was going to Mount Kailash carrying the dead body of Sati Shaktipeeths were established wherever her body parts fell. The eyes of Goddess Sati had fallen at the place of Naini Lake. Inspired by this this temple has been established.

JIM CORBETT


Lakshman Jhula
Lakshman Jhula is a suspension bridge across the river Ganges located 5 kilometres north-east of the city of Rishikesh in the Indian state of Uttarakhand. The bridge connects the two villages of Tapovan in Tehri Garhwal district on the west bank of the river to Jonk in Pauri Garhwal district on the east bank. Lakshman Jhula is a pedestrian bridge that was also used by motorbikes.

Kempty Falls
Kempty Falls is a waterfall in Ram Gaon and at the south of Kempty in the Tehri Garhwal District of Uttarakhand India. It is 13 kilometres from Mussoorie on the Chakrata Road and 45 kilometres from Dehradun. It is nearly 1364 meters above sea level at 78-02East longitude and 30 -29North latitude. The Kempty Falls and the area around is surrounded by high mountain ranges at an altitude o

Gun Hill


Clock Tower


Shalimar Bagh Mughal Garden


Sonamarg
Sonamarg  known as Sonamarag in Kashmiri is a hill station located in the Ganderbal District of Jammu and Kashmir India. It is located about 62 Kilometers from Ganderbal Town and 80 kilometres northeast of the capital city Srinagar. Sonamarg had historical significance as a gateway on the ancient Silk Road connecting Jammu and Kashmir with Tibet. Today the hill station is a popular tourist destination amongst fishers and hikers and following the Kargil War with neighbouring Pakistan in 1999 serves as a strategically important point for the Indian Army.

Pahalgam Golf Course


Cheeyappara And Valara Waterfalls - Idukki


Blossom Hydel Park


Abrahams Spice Garden


Lake View Point


Alappuzha Beach
Alappuzha Beach is a beach in Alappuzha town and a tourist attraction in Kerala India. Beach has an old pier which extend to sea is over 150 years old. Alappuzha beach host many events annually like Alappuzha beach festival Sand art festival and many more.

Kanyakumari Beach


Thiruvananthapuram Zoo
The Thiruvananthapuram Zoo is located in the city of Thiruvananthapuram the capital of Kerala India. It occupies 55 acres of woodland lakes and lawns. Thiruvananthapuram Zoo is one of the oldest zoos in India. Similarly the Museum and Botanical Gardens are also one of the oldest of their kind in the country. Swathi Thirunal Rama Varma the ruler of Travancore during 18301846 was the visionary behind the establishment of the Thiruvananthapuram Museum and Zoo. He had a broad variety of animals including elephants in his horse breeding center. In the Trivandrum stables he incorporated a menagerie and kept tigers panthers cheetahs deer bears and a lioness there.

Napier Museum
The Napier Museum is an art and natural history museum situated in Thiruvananthapuram the capital city of Kerala India.

Kerala State Science And Technology Museum & Priyadarsini Planetarium
Kerala Science and Technology Museum Established in 1984 the Kerala State Science & Technology Museum is designed to serve as a dynamic medium of science communication for the public and inculcate a sense of inquiry and scientific temperament in the minds of the young. The museum has galleries on electricity electronics power and motion mechanics with more than 300 exhibits galleries on Popular Science Mathematics Automobile Bio-medical Engineering Computer and Solar energy Priyadarsini Planetarium a Science Park a Mobile Science Exhibition Unit a Play Park with Educational playing devices Energy Park 3D theatre Edusat TalkBack Terminal Energy ball Motion simulator with 6 degrees of freedom and Laserium & Water fountain etc. A well-equipped library is an important attraction of this museum.

Mattupetty Dam
Mattupetty Dam near Munnar in Idukki District is a storage Concrete Gravity dam built in the mountains of Kerala India to conserve water for hydroelectricity. It has been a vital source of power yielding along with other such dams huge revenue to the states. The large amount of perennially available water allows wild animals and birds to flourish. However salinity caused by irrigation an

Kundala Dam Lake


Spice Garden


Tea Museum


Periyar National Park
Periyar National Park and Wildlife Sanctuary is a protected area located in the districts of Idukki and Pathanamthitta in Kerala India. It is notable as an elephant reserve and a tiger reserve. The protected area encompasses 925 km2 of which 305 km2 (118 sq mi) of the core zone was declared as the Periyar National Park in 1982. The park is a repository of rare endemic and endangered flora and fauna and forms the major watershed of two important rivers of Kerala the Periyar and the Pamba.

Spice Walk


Athirappilly Falls
Athirappilly Falls is situated in Athirappilly Panchayat in Chalakudy Taluk of Thrissur District in Kerala India on the Chalakudy River which originates from the upper reaches of the Western Ghats at the entrance to the Sholayar ranges. It is the largest waterfall in Kerala which stands tall at 80 feet. Just a short drive from Athirappilly to the Vazhachal falls which is close to dense green fores

Kollam Beach
Kollam Beach also known as Mahatma Gandhi Beach is a beach in Kollam city in the Indian state of Kerala. Kollam Beach is the first Beach Wedding Destination in Kerala. The beach also features a park of international standard the Mahatma Gandhi Park which was inaugurated on 1 January 1961 by the then Vice President of India Zakir Hussain. Kollam beach is one of the few beaches in Kerala with a lifeguard outpost. Lifeguards were stationed at the beach since 2005. As of July 2015 Kovalam Kollam is one among the three beaches in south Kerala with lifeguard outposts.

Kodaikanal Lake
Kodaikanal Lake also known as Kodai Lake is a manmade lake located in the Kodaikanal city in Dindigul district in Tamil Nadu India. Sir Vere Henry Levinge the then Collector of Madurai was instrumental in creating the lake in 1863 amidst the Kodaikanal town which was developed by the British and early missionaries from USA. The lake is said to be Kodaikanals most popular g

Berijam Lake
Berijam Lake is a reservoir near Kodaikanal town in Dindigul district of Tamil Nadu South India. It is at the old site of Fort Hamilton in the upper Palani hills. The lake created by a dam with sluice outlets is part of a microwatershed development project. PeriBerijam Lake is a reservoir near Kodaikanal town in Dindigul district of Tamil Nadu South India. It is at the old site of Fort Hamilton in the upper Palani hills. The lake created by a dam with sluice outlets is part of a microwatershed development project. Periyakulam town 18.7 kilometres to the SE gets its public drinking water from the lake. The lakes water quality is excellent.

Sabarmati Ashram
Sabarmati Ashram is located in the Sabarmati suburb of Ahmedabad Gujarat adjoining the Ashram Road on the banks of the River Sabarmati 4.0 miles from the town hall. This was one of the many residences of Mahatma Gandhi who lived at Sabarmati and Sevagram when he was not travelling across India or in prison. He lived in Sabarmati or Wardha for a total of twelve years with his

Kankaria Lake
Kankaria Lake is the second largest lake in Ahmedabad Gujarat India. It is located in the south-eastern part of the city in the Maninagar area. It was completed in 1451 during the reign of Sultan Qutb-ud-Din Ahmad Shah II though its origin is placed in the Chaulukya period sometimes. A lakefront is developed around it which has many public attractions such as a zoo toy train kids ci

Adalaj Stepwell
Adalaj Stepwell or Rudabai Stepwell is a stepwell located in the village of Adalaj close to Ahmedabad city and in Gandhinagar district in the Indian state of Gujarat and considered a fine example of Indian architecture work. It was built in 1498 in the memory of Rana Veer Singh by his wife Queen Rudadevi.

Manek Chowk
Manek Chowk is a notable city square in Old Ahmedabad India. It is surrounded by historical structures. It is a vegetable market in the morning a bullion market in the noon and the street food market at night.

Vintage Car Museum


Rotary Dolls Museum


Shri Ramakrishna Ashrama


Fun World


Lakhota Talav


Khijadiya Bird Sanctuary
Khijadiya Bird Sanctuary is a bird sanctuary located in Jamnagar district of Gujarat India. About 300 species of migratory birds have been recorded here.

Dwarkadhish Temple
The Dwarkadhish temple also known as the Jagat Mandir and occasionally spelled Dwarakadheesh is a Hindu temple dedicated to god Krishna who is worshiped here by the name Dwarkadhish or King of Dwarka. The temple is located at Dwarka Gujarat India one of the destinations of Char Dham a Hindu pilgrimage circuit. The main shrine of the five storied building supported b

Nageshvara Jyotirlinga
Nageshvara is one of the temples mentioned in the Shiva Purana and is one of the twelve Jyotirlingas.

Vijaya Vilas Palace
Vijaya Vilas Palace is the famous one time summer palace of Jadeja Maharao of Kutch located on sea-beach of Mandvi in Kutch Gujarat India.

Gopi Talab


The Beach At Mandvi Palace


Kirti Mandir Porbandar
Kirti Mandir is the memorial house kept in memory of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi and Kasturba Gandhi located in city of Porbandar Gujarat India. Kirti Mandir has now been converted into a small museum that displays items used by Gandhiji along with some really old photographs. The museum houses a library that has books either written by Gandhiji or relating to his philosophi

Aradhana Dham


Bileshwar Shiva Temple


Dataar Hills


Uparkot Fort
Uparkot is a fort located in east side of Junagadh Gujarat India.

City Palace
City Palace Udaipur is a palace complex situated in the city of Udaipur in the Indian state of Rajasthan. It was built over a period of nearly 400 years with contributions from several rulers of the Mewar dynasty. Its construction began in 1553 started by Maharana Udai Singh II of the Sisodia Rajput family as he shifted his capital from the erstwhile Chittor to the new found city of Udaipur. The palace is located on the eas

Lake Pichola
Lake Pichola situated in Udaipur city in the Indian state of Rajasthan is an artificial fresh water lake created in the year 1362 AD named after the nearby Picholi village. It is one of the several contiguous lakes and developed over the last few centuries in and around the famous Udaipur city. The lakes around Udaipur were primarily created by building dams to meet the drinking water and irrigation needs of the city.

Ranakpur Jain temple
Ranakpur Jain temple or Chaturmukha Dharana Vihara is a vtmbara Jain temple at Ranakpur is dedicated to Tirthankara Rishabhanatha. The temple is located in a village of Ranakpur near Sadri town in the Pali district of Rajasthan.

Bagore ki haveli
Bagore-ki-Haveli is a haveli in Udaipur in Rajasthan state in India. It is right on the waterfront of Lake Pichola at Gangori Ghat. Amar Chand Badwa the Prime Minister of Mewar built it in the eighteenth century.

Jagdish Temple
Jagdish Temple is a large Hindu temple in the middle of Udaipur in Rajasthan just outside the royal palace. It has been in continuous worship since 1651. A big tourist attraction the temple was originally called the temple of Jagannath Rai but is now called Jagdish-ji. It is a major monument in Udaipur.

Monsoon Palace
The Monsoon Palace also known as the Sajjan Garh Palace is a hilltop palatial residence in the city of Udaipur Rajasthan in India overlooking the Fateh Sagar Lake. It is named Sajjangarh after Maharana Sajjan Singh of the Mewar Dynasty who it was built for in 1884.

Eklingji Temple
Eklingji is a Hindu temple complex in Udaipur District of Rajasthan in western India. Eklingji is believed to be the ruling deity of Mewar Princely State and the Maharana rules as his Dewan.

Jag Mandir
Jag Mandir is a palace built on an island in the Lake Pichola. It is also called the Lake Garden Palace. The palace is located in Udaipur city in the Indian state of Rajasthan. Its construction is credited to three Maharanas of the Sisodia Rajputs of Mewar kingdom. The construction of the palace was started in 1551 by Maharana Amar Singh continued by Maharana Karan Singh and finally completed by Maharana Jagat Singh I.

Under The Sun Aquarium
Under The Sun Aquarium is the biggest Public Aquarium in India. It is the latest tourist attraction in the alluring City of Lakes. It was inaugurated on 21st October 2017. The 125 meter long aquarium plays host to around 150 different species of fishes.

Lake Palace


Betaab Valley
Betaab valley is situated at a distance of 15 kilometers from Pahalgam in Anantnag district in Indias northernmost union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The valley got its name from the Sunny Deol-Amrita Singh hit debut film Betaab. The Valley is towards northeast of Pahalgam and falls between Pahalgam and Chandanwadi and is en route Amarnath Temple Yatra. The valley surround

Nishat Garden


Nigeen Lake
Nigeen Lake is a mildly eutrophic lake located in Srinagar Jammu and Kashmir India. It is sometimes considered a part of the Dal lake and is connected to it via a narrow strait. It is also connected to the Khushal Sar and Gil Sar lakes via a channel known as Nallah Amir Khan.

Zoji La
Zoji La is a high mountain pass in the Himalayas in the Indian union territory of Ladakh. Located in the Drass the pass connects the Kashmir Valley to its west with the Drass and Suru valleys to its northeast and the Indus valley further east.

Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park
Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park is a 67.56-acre zoo in the town of Darjeeling in the Indian state of West Bengal. The zoo was opened in 1958 and an average elevation of 7000 feet is the largest high altitude zoo in India. It specializes in breeding animals adapted to alpine conditions and has successful captive breeding programs for the snow leopard the critically endangered Himalayan wolf and the red panda. The zoo attracts about 300000 visitors every year. The park is named after Padmaja Naidu daughter of Sarojini Naidu. The zoo serves as the central hub for Central Zoo Authority of Indias red panda program and is a member of the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums.

Tiger Hill Darjeeling
Tiger Hill is located in Darjeeling in the Indian State of West Bengal. It has a panoramic view of Mount Everest and Mount Kanchenjunga together.

Himalayan Mountaineering Institute
The Himalayan Mountaineering Institute was established in Darjeeling India on 4 November 1954 to encourage mountaineering as an organized sport in India. The first ascent of Mount Everest in 1953 by Tenzing Norgay and Edmund Hillary sparked a keen interest in establishing mountaineering as a well-respected endeavour for people in the region. With the impetus provided by the first pr

MG Marg
M.G Marg satisfying much of the local and the visitors alike. All the buildings and major shops are painted green to project the local peoples commitment to be an environment friendly state. It is especially joyful in the evening when the streets and shops are lit up with colorful lights. The beautiful gardens with seasonal flowers and water fountains are a pleasant treat to the visitors who visit this place. Almost all the major shops and restaurants are located along the M.G. Marg and it is busy place as all the local people of Gangtok converge at this Mall for their daily shopping and provision needs. A temporary cultural platform erected in front of the Tourism Information Centre exhibits the cultural extravaganza of the state during festive tourism occasions. If you are lucky enough you could get to see some cultural dances and performances in the evenings. This is a vehicle free zone where visitors can safely enjoy the evening free hours at leisure. There are many restaurants to savor from and handicraft and provision stores to explore and purchase souvenirs from. Shops are open from 9 am and open till 8 pm while most restaurants are open till 11 p.m.

Baba Harbhajan Singh Memorial Temple
Located between Nathula and Jelepla pass at an altitude of 13123 ft and about 52kms from Gangtok Baba Harbhajan Singh Temple is a unique destination mainly due to the legacy attached with it. It is believed that his spirit protects every soldier in the inhospitable high-altitude terrain of the Eastern Himalayas. The legend of Baba goes back 35 years when Sepoy Harbhajan Singh of the 23rd Punjab Regiment went missing. A manhunt was launched and it took the army three days to find his body. It is believed that he himself led the soldiers to the site. The soldiers raised a Samadhi in his name and till date people in the area believe that Babas sprit protects the soldier posted here. The Indian Army treated Baba as a soldier who never died and he was retired with full honours in December 2016.

Peace Pagoda
Peace Pagoda Darjeeling or Darjeeling Peace Pagoda is one of the Peace Pagodas designed to provide a focus for people of all races and creeds to help unite them in their search for world peace. It is located in the town of Darjeeling in the Indian state of West Bengal. Like most of the other Peace Pagodas it was built under the guidance of Nichidatsu Fujii a Buddhist monk from Japan a

Kanchenjunga Mountain
Kangchenjunga also spelled Kanchenjunga is the third highest mountain in the world. It rises with an elevation of 8586 m in a section of the Himalayas called Kangchenjunga Himal delimited in the west by the Tamur River in the north by the Lhonak the Chu and Jongsang La and in the east by the Teesta River.

Buddha Park of Ravangla
The Buddha Park of Ravangla also known as Tathagata Tsal is situated near Ravangla in South Sikkim district of the Indian state of Sikkim. It was constructed between 2006 and 2013 and features a 130-foot-high statue of the Buddha erected to mark the 2550th anniversary of the birth of Gautama Buddha as its main attraction. The site was chosen within the larger religious comp

Shanti Stupa
Shanti Stupa is a Buddhist white-domed stupa on a hilltop in Chanspa Leh district Ladakh in the north India. It was built in 1991 by Japanese Buddhist Bhikshu Gyomyo Nakamura and part of the Peace Pagoda mission. The Shanti Stupa holds the relics of the Buddha at its base enshrined by the 14th Dalai Lama. The stupa has become a tourist attraction not only due to its religiou

Magnetic Hill
Magnet Hill is a Cyclops hill located near Leh in Ladakh India. The layout of the area and surrounding slopes create the optical illusion of a hill. The hill road is actually a downhill road. Objects and cars on the hill road may appear to roll uphill in defiance of gravity when they are in fact rolling downhill. It is 7.5 km southeast of Nimmoo and 26.5 km west of Leh on Srinagar-Ladakh road.

Khardung Pass
Khardung La or Khardung Pass is a mountain pass in the Leh district of the Indian union territory of Ladakh. The pass is on the Ladakh Range north of Leh and connects the Indus river valley and the Shyok river valley. It also forms the gateway to the Nubra valley beyond which lies the Siachen Glacier. A motorable road through the pass was built in 1976 and opened to public motor vehicles in 1988. Maintained by the Border Roads Organisation the pass is strategically important to India as it is used to carry supplies to the Siachen Glacier. The road is one of the worlds highest motoroable roads.

Spituk Monastery
Spituk Monastery also known as Spituk Gompa or Pethup Gompa is a Buddhist monastery in Spituk Leh district Ladakh northern India. 8 kilometres from Leh. The site of Spituk was blessed by the Arhat Nyimagung. It was founded by Od-de the elder brother of Lha Lama Changchub Od when he came to Maryul in the 11th Century. He introduced the monastic community. When Lotsewa Rinc

Ganesh Tok
Ganesh Tok is a small Ganesh Temple located 7 km from Gangtok at an altitude of 6500 m and can accommodate just one person at a time and one has to crawl to reach there. But a panoramic view of the entire town of Gangtok the Raj Bhavan complex and mount Kanchenjunga can be seen from here and makes for a breathtaking view.

Tashi View Point
Tashi View Point is located at a distance of 8 km from the town. This is a perfect place to witness the brilliant surroundings like mountains valleys. The View Point offers splendid view of the Kanchenjunga and Siniolchu Peaks. it displays glory in shades of pink orange gold and finally white.

Ghoom Monastery


Hanuman Tok
Hanuman Tok is a Hindu temple complex which is located in the upper reaches of Gangtok the capital of the Indian state of Sikkim. The temple is dedicated to lord Hanuman and maintained by the Indian army. It was established in 1952.Hanuman Tok is a Hindu temple complex which is located in the upper reaches of Gangtok the capital of the Indian state of Sikkim. The temple is dedicated to lord Hanuman and maintained by the Indian army. It was established in 1952.

Darjeeling Toy Train
The Darjeeling Himalayan Railway also known as the DHR or the Toy Train is a 2 ft gauge railway that runs between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling in the Indian state of West Bengal. Built between 1879 and 1881 it is about 88 km long. It climbs from about 100 m above sea level at New Jalpaiguri to about 2200 m at Darjeeling using six zig zags and five loops to gain altitude. Six diesel locomotives handle most of the scheduled service with daily tourist trains from Darjeeling to Ghum  Indias highest railway station  and the steam-hauled Red Panda service from Darjeeling to Kurseong. Steam-enthusiast specials are hauled by vintage British-built B-Class steam locomotives. The railways headquarters are at Kurseong.

Triveni Ghat
Triveni Ghat is a ghat situated in Rishikesh Uttarakhand. It is the biggest and most famous ghat in Rishikesh at the banks of Ganges. Triveni Ghat remains overcrowded with devotee to take ritual baths to get cleansed from their sins. It is believed that the ghat was visited by Lord Krishna when he got hurt by the arrow of Jara  a hunter. Being the most venerated ghat in Rishikesh Trive

New Laal Tibba
Lal Tibba earlier was at the highest peak of Mussoorie where presently TV Tower is located. The earlier Lal Tibba peak had a fixed large binocular through which one could see the snow-clad peaks of the Himalayas that lie to the north. After the construction of the TV Tower the binocular was shifted on the Landour ridge towards the west which is now named Lal Tibba and is located near Childers Lodge. Popular among tourists and travelers for viewing long trails of major mountain peaks as well as romantic sunset and sunrise.

Tungnath
Kedarnath is one of the highest Shiva temples in the world and is the highest of the five Panch Kedar temples located in the mountain range of Tunganath in Rudraprayag district in the Indian state of Uttarakhand. The Tunganath mountains form the Mandakini and Alaknanda river valleys. It is located at an altitude of 3680 m and just below the peak of Chandrashila. and is the thir

Gangotri Temple


Deoria Tal
Deoria Tal is a lake about 3 km from the villages of Mastura and Sari on the Ukhimath-Chopta road in Uttarakhand. At an altitude of 2438 meters it has heavily wooded lush green surroundings with snow-covered mountains in the backdrop.

Ganga Aarti Sthal
Each evening at sunset the priests of Har ki Pauri perform the - Ganga Aarti - over an old tradition. Where lights are set on the water to drift downstream. A large number of people gather on both banks of the Ganga river to sing Ganga Aarti praises. At that time the priests hold large Fire Bowls in their hands rung bells at the temples situated at the ghat and chants are chanted by the priests. People flick Diya into the river Ganges as a symbol of hopes and wishes. However in some special cases like the occurrence of eclipses the time of the Ganga Aarti has altered accordingly.

Forest Research Institute
The Forest Research Institute    is an institute of the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education and is a premier institution in the field of forestry research in India. It is located at Dehradun in Uttarakhand and is among the oldest institutions of its kind. In 1991 it was declared a deemed university by the University Grants Commission.

Brahma Sarovar
Brahma Sarovar is an ancient water pool sacred to Hinduism in old Kurukshetra city in the state of Haryana in North India. Hinduism lays emphasis on taking bath for internal and external purity. Most religious sites have water pools or sarovar in or near the Hindu temple and Sikh gurdwara. The Hindu genealogy registers at Kurukshetra Haryana are kept here.

Triund
Triund is a small hill station in the Kangra district in the state of Himachal Pradesh India. Triund is a part of Dharamkot. Triund is at the foot of the Dhauladhar ranges and is at a height of 2828 m.

Rohtang Pass
Rohtang Pass is a high mountain pass on the eastern end of the Pir Panjal Range of the Himalayas around 51 km from Manali in the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. It connects the Kullu Valley with the Lahaul and Spiti Valleys of Himachal Pradesh India. The pass is open from May to November. It is not particularly high or difficult to cross on foot by Himalayan standards but it has a well-deserved reputation for being dangerous because of unpredictable snowstorms and blizzards.

G. B. Pant High Altitude Zoo Nainital
Pt. Govind Ballabh Pant High Altitude Zoo is a high altitude zoo situated in Nainital Uttarakhand. Established in 1984 and opened to public in 1995 it is situated on the Sher Ka Danda hill at a height of 2100 metres above sea-level and is spread over 4.6 hectares. It is the only High Altitude Zoo in north India besides those in Darjeeling and Sikkim. Over the years it has become a popular tourist attraction. The zoo was established in 1984 though it was opened to visitors on 1 June 1995. The Naintal Zoo was home to Indias only Siberian tiger from 2001 until its death in November 2011. The tiger named Kunal was half of a pair of tigers brought from Darjeeling in 1997. His older brother named Mahesh died in 2001.

Bhimtal Lake
Bhimtal Lake is a lake in the town of Bhimtal in the Indian state of Uttarakhand with a masonry dam built in 1883 creating the storage facility. It is the largest lake in Kumaon region known as the lake district of India. The lake provides drinking water supply and supports aquaculture with variety of fish species. There is an island at the centre of the lake which has been developed as a t

Garjiya Devi Temple
Garjiya Devi Temple is a noted Devi temple located in the Garjiya village near Ramnagar Uttarakhand India on the outskirts of the Corbett National Park. It is a sacred Shakti shrine where Garjiya Devi is the presiding deity. The temple is situated over a large rock in the Kosi River and is one of the most famous temples of the Nainital district visited by thousands of devotees during Kartik Poornima a Hindu holy day celebrated on the fifteenth lunar day of Kartik The first priest was Pt. Keshav Dutt Pandey who began worship of Devi Girija. There is also a statue of LakshmiNarayan of 9th century made from black granite. Many people go there every day to worship in the temple. Many people bathe in the Kosi river near Garjiya temple.

Eco Cave Gardens
Eco Cave Gardens is a cluster of naturally formed rocky caves. It is close to the Mall Road. It has 6 caves formed in the shape of animals. You can visit the caves from 9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. every day of the week. There are six underground caves in this garden which are connected through tunnels.  caves are known as Tiger Cave Panther Cave Bat Cave Squirrel Cave Flying Fox Cave and Ape Cave. caves names are based on the different wild animals. Some of the caves are so narrow and its little difficult to pass out of there but which makes more fun and adventure.

Snow View Point
Snow View Point Nainital located at 2270 meters above sea level. One can get a glimpse of all three important peaks of the Himalayas (Nanda Devi Trishul and Nanda Kot) from this viewpoint. You can go the viewpoint using an aerial cable car that connects Snow View Point and Mall Road.

Baijnath Temple
Baijnath Temple is a Nagara style Hindu temple situated in a small town of Baijnath located in Kangra District Himachal Pradesh India and was built in 1204 A.D. by two local merchants named Ahuka and Manyuka. It is dedicated to Lord Shiva as VaidyaBaijnath Temple is a Nagara style Hindu temple situated in a small town of Baijnath located in Kangra District Himachal Pradesh India and was built in 1204 A.D. by two local merchants named Ahuka and Manyuka. It is dedicated to Lord Shiva as Vaidyanath the Lord of physicians. According to the inscriptions on the present day Baijnath temple structure a temple of Lord Shiva had existed before construction of present-day structure. The inner sanctum houses a Shiva lingam. Further images are carved in the walls and in niches on the exterior.

Jim Corbett Museum
The Corbett museum is one of the most captivating parts of the dense Corbett Reserve beautifully located in Kaladhungi and is positioned just 3 km away from its main town. The Kaladhungi location is ideally crisscrossed from Nainital via Khurtpal and the museum preposited here is the most featured sites for the tourists. The museum is actually a heritage bungalow of Jim Corbett the renowned hunter turned environmentalist who raised the value of wildlife conservation and this magnificent museum brings the memory of the life and activities of the spectacular and distinguished person in the jungle of the Kumaon hills. A visit to the Corbett Museum is more meaningful and knowledgeable since one can learn the importance of wildlife while roaming around the vast and majestic vicinity of the Corbett Reserve.

Corbet Tiger Reserve India


Lalbagh Botanical Garden
Lalbagh Botanical Garden or simply Lalbagh is a botanical garden in Bangalore India with an over 200-year history. First planned and laid out during the dalavaiship of Hyder Ali and later managed under numerous British Superintendents before Indian Independence. It was responsible for the introduction and propagation of numerous ornamental plants as well as those of economic value.

Cubbon Park
Cubbon Park officially called Sri Chamarajendra Park is a landmark lung area of Bengaluru city located within the heart of the city in the Central Administrative Area. Originally created in 1870 when Major General Richard Sankey was the then British Chief Engineer of Mysore state it covered an area of 100 acres and subsequent expansion has taken place and the area reported now is about

Bull Temple Bangalore


Brindavan Gardens
The Brindavan Gardens is a garden located in the Mandya District of the Indian State of Karnataka. It lies adjoining the Krishnarajasagara Dam which is built across the river Kaveri. The work on laying out this garden was started in the year 1927 and completed in 1932. Visited by close to 2 million tourists per year the garden is one of the major attractions of Srirangapatna. Sir Mirza Ismail

Mysore Zoo
Mysore Zoo is a 157-acre zoo located near the palace in Mysore India. It is one of the oldest and most popular zoos in India and is home to a wide range of species. Mysore Zoo is one of the citys most popular attractions.

Chamundi Hills
The Chamundi Hills are located 13 km east of Mysore the Palace City in Karnataka India. The average elevation is 1000 metres.

Mysore Palace
The Mysore Palace is a historical palace and the royal residence at Mysore in the Indian State of Karnataka. It is the official residence of the Wadiyar dynasty and the seat of the Kingdom of Mysore. The palace is in the centre of Mysore and faces the Chamundi Hills eastward. Mysore is commonly described as the City of Palaces and there are seven palaces including this one however

Doddabetta
Doddabetta is the highest mountain in the Nilgiri Mountains at 2637 metres. There is a reserved forest area around the peak. It is 9 km from Ooty on the Ooty-Kotagiri Road in the Nilgiris District of Tamil Nadu India. It is a popular tourist attraction with road access to the summit. It is the fourth highest peak in South India next to Anamudi Mannamalai and Meesapulimala. The peaks

Ooty Lake
Ooty lake is also called Ooty boat house is located in Ooty in the Nilgiris district and 1 km from the Ooty bus stand. Tamil Nadu India. It covers an area of 65 acres. The Boat house situated by the lake which offers boating facilities to tourists is a major tour. Ooty lake is also called Ooty boat house is located in Ooty in the Nilgiris district and 1 km from the Ooty bus stand. Tamil Nadu India. It covers an area of 65 acres. The Boat house situated by the lake which offers boating facilities to tourists is a major tourist attraction in Ooty.

Pykara Waterfalls
Pykara is river 19 kilometers from Ooty in the Indian State of Tamil Nadu with a village by the same name nearby. The Pykara River is considered very sacred by the Todas. It rises at the Mukurthi peak flows northwards and then turns to the west after reaching the edge of the plateau.

Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary
Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary is a wildlife sanctuary in Wayanad Kerala India with an extent of 344.44 km2 and four hill ranges Sulthan Bathery Muthanga Kurichiat and Tholpetty. Various large wild animals are found there such as gaur Asian elephant deer and tiger. There are also quite a few unusual birds in the sanctuary. In particular Indian peafowl tends to be very common in the area. Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary is the second largest wildlife sanctuary in Kerala. It is bestowed with lush green forests and rich wildlife. This wildlife area houses some of the rare and endangered species of both flora and fauna.

The Nilgiri Library
The 153-year-old and still growing institution on the Commissioners Road is one of the prestigious visages of the Nilgiri town. The library has a collection of around 30000 books and includes documents biographies and old books - apt for Book-addicts. Most visitors to the hill station may not take note of this elegant building with certain features of Gothic architecture which houses one of the oldest and finest public libraries in India. But many of the book lovers here are familiar with its chequered history and the number of persons showing interest in becoming part of the institution as members are on the rise.

Meenakshi Temple
Meenakshi Temple is a historic Hindu temple located on the southern bank of the Vaigai River in the temple city of Madurai Tamil Nadu India. It is dedicated to Thirukamakottam udaya aaludaiya nachiyar Meenakshi a form of Parvati and her consort Sundareshwar a form of Shiva. The temple is at the center of the ancient temple city of Madurai mentioned in the Tamil Sangam literature w

Kannan Devan Tea Plantation
The KDHP Tea Museum is an industry and history museum situated in Munnar a town in the Idukki district of Kerala in South India. Tata Tea Museum is its official name but its also known as Nalluthanni Estate where it is located or Kannan Devan Hills Plantation Tea Museum.

Pemayangtse Monastery
The Pemayangtse Monastery is a Buddhist monastery in Pemayangtse near Pelling in the northeastern Indian state of Sikkim located 110 km west of Gangtok. Planned designed and founded by Lama Lhatsun Chempo in 1647 it is one of the oldest and premier monasteries of Sikkim also the most famous in Sikkim. Originally started as a small Lhakhang it was subsequently enlarge

Enchey Monastery
The Enchey Monastery was established in 1909 above Gangtok the capital city of Sikkim in the Northeastern Indian state. It belongs to the Nyingma order of Vajrayana Buddhism. The monastery built around the then small hamlet of Gangtok became a religious centre. The location was blessed by Lama Drupthob Karpo a renowned exponent of tantric art in Buddhism with flying powers i

Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary
Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary is a wildlife sanctuary on the southern bank of the Brahmaputra in Morigaon district in Assam India. It was declared in 1987 and covers 38.85 km2 providing grassland and wetland habitat for the Indian rhinoceros. Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary holds one of the largest Indian rhinoceros populations in Assam.

Don Bosco Museum
This museum and research and publication centre 3 km away from Shillong provides a glimpse of the life culture and history of Northeast India. The museum is a fascinating storehouse of tribal artefacts. Its building is seven storeys high with each level representing one of the seven sister states of the Northeast. The architecture of the building in in the shape of a honeycomb that allows light and fresh air to pass through easily.

Nuranang Falls
Nuranang Falls some 100 metres high is located in the Tawang district of Arunachal Pradesh India. It is one of the most spectacular waterfalls in this part of the country yet is unknown to many travelers. It lies some 2 kilometres away from the town of Jang oNuranang Falls some 100 metres high is located in the Tawang district of Arunachal Pradesh India. It is one of the most spectacular waterfalls in this part of the country yet is unknown to many travelers. It lies some 2 kilometres away from the town of Jang on the road connecting Tawang and Bomdila so it is also known as the Jang Falls. There is a small hydel plant located near the base that generates electricity for local use.

Jaswant Garh War Memorial
A half an hour drive from Seal Pass Jaswant Garh named after a soldier who became a hero in the 1962 war against China as he fought alone against them for 72 hours and sacrificed his life for the country. It becomes a duty to pay homage to the immortal son of India. Jaswant Singh Rawat was an Indian rifleman soldier who won the Maha Vir Chakra posthumously at the Battle of Nuranang. This is a majortourist attraction to visit in Arunachal Pradesh.

Sungester Lake (Madhuri Lake)
The Sangestar Tso formerly called Shonga-tser Lake and popularly known as the Madhuri Lake is located on the way from Tawang to Bum La Pass in Tawang district of Arunachal Pradesh near Indo-China border above 3708 metres above sea level. This is a really beautiful place. This location is off the beaten track for those who love roaming in the wilderness. It is a fantastic place for a picnic of a lifetime if you move out of Tawang by around 7am and carry in everything yourself.

Bum La Pass
The Bum La Pass is a border pass between Tibets Cona County and Indias Tawang district in Arunachal Pradesh. It is 37 km away from the India-administered town of Tawang and 43 km from the China-administered Tsona Dzong town in Cona County in Tibet. Visit by civilian tourist of India is permissible with permission from the Indian Army. The track is very treacherous only SUVs advisable and that too only on clear weather day with no snowfall or rainfall.

Tawang War Memorial
Tawang War Memorial is a stupa built to commemorate the Indian martyrs who sacrificed their lives in the 1962 Indo-China war. Located a stones throw from Tawang town the memorial has been designed using Buddhist architectural and cultural elements including prayer wheels and flags colourful serpents dragons and other arra. Some of these ornamental decorations have also been donated by the local Tawang population as tribute. All these things come together beautifully to highlight the sanctity of this place. Statues of deities like Lord Buddha can be seen inside.

Panga Teng Tso lake
Panga Teng Tso lake is located in Tawang. Tso Lake is a beautiful lake in Arunchal Pradesh. It is located at an altitude of 12000 feet in the Eastern Himalayas. This lake holds spiritual importance in the Buddhist community. During winter the lake provides an ideal spot for skiing. Penga Teng Tso is a major tourist attraction also because it offers thrilling adventure activities to the adrenaline junkie.

Umananda Temple
Umananda Devaloi is a Shiva temple located at the Umananda Island in the middle of river Brahmaputra just opposite the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Kamrup or the Kachari Ghat in Guwahati. It is known as smallest inhabited riverine island in the world. Country boats that are available on the bank of Brahmaputra take the visitors to the island. The mountain on which the temple has been built is known as Bhasmacala.It was built in 1694CE in the order of King Gadadhar Singha but was broken down by an earthquake in 1867.

Navagraha Temple
Navagraha temples are temples devoted to Navagraha - the nine major celestial bodies of Hindu astronomy. These temples are made of stones. These celestial bodies are named Surya Chandra Mangala Budha Brihaspati Shukra Shani Rahu and Ketu. Many temples in South India contain a shrine dedicated to the Navagrahas.

Assam State Museum
The Assam State Museum previously Assam Provincial Museum is located in the southern end of Dighali Pukhuri tank which is in the heart of Guwahati city Assam. The Museum was established by the Kamarupa Anusandhan Samiti in 1940. The late Kanklal Baruah was the founder and president. In the year 1953 it was taken over by the Assam State Government.

Sukreswar Temple
The Sukreswar Temple is an important Shiva temple in the state of Assam in India. The temple is located on the Sukreswar or Itakhuli hill on the south bank of river Brahmaputra in the Panbazar locality of Guwahati city. Leading down from the temple compound is a loThe Sukreswar Temple is an important Shiva temple in the state of Assam in India. The temple is located on the Sukreswar or Itakhuli hill on the south bank of river Brahmaputra in the Panbazar locality of Guwahati city. Leading down from the temple compound is a long flight of steps to the river. Sitting on the steps of Sukreswar ghat one can enjoy the scenery of sun setting on the river boats moving across the river people performing puja in honour of their relatives who have left this world children and older people bathing.

Assam State Zoo cum Botanical Garden
The Assam State Zoo cum Botanical Garden is the largest of its kind in the North East region and it is spread across 432 acre. The zoo is located within the Hengrabari Reserved Forest at Guwahati India. The zoo is home to about 895 animals birds and reptiles representing almost 113 species of animals and birds from around the world.

Echo point Munnar
Echo Point is located at an altitude of 600 ft. and at a distance of about 15 kilometers from Munnar. Popular for its natural echo phenomenon Neelakurinji flowers misty hills covered with lush green trees. It is an ideal picnic spot.

Eravikulam National Park
Eravikulam National Park is a 97 km national park located along the Western Ghats in the Idukki and Ernakulam districts of Kerala in India. Situated between 1005N and 1020 north and 770 and 7710 east it is the first national park in Kerala.

Mahatma Gandhi Memorial


Karikkakom Devi Temple
Karikkakom Sree Chamundi Devi Temple or Karikkakom Devi Temple is a Hindu temple dedicated to Goddess Chamundi located in Thiruvananthapuram India. This ancient temple more than 600 years old is situated at Karikkakom around 7 km north of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple in Thiruvananthapuram. The temple enshrines a Panchaloha idol of the goddess Karikkakathamma  a

Shri Keshavraiji Temple Bet Dwarka
Shri Keshavraiji Temple is located on an island Beyt Dwarka Gujarat India. It is an ancient temple dedicated to Lord Krishna which was built by the Pushkarna Brahmin community. It is situated near Holy lake Shankh Sarovar which is 1km from Be

Sarkhej Roza
Sarkhej Roza is a mosque and tomb complex located in the village of Makarba 7 km south-west of Ahmedabad in Gujarat state India. Although there are many rozas across Gujarat the Sarkhej Roza is the most revered. Sarkhej was once a prominent centre of Sufi culture in the country where influential Sufi saint Shaikh Ahmed Ganj Baksh lived. It was on the saints suggestion that Sulta

Swami Narayan Mandir


Amba Ashram


Assi Ghat
Assi Ghat is the southernmost ghat in Varanasi. To most visitors to Varanasi it is known for being a place where long-term foreign students researchers and tourists live.

Sarnath Museum
Sarnath Museum is the oldest site museum of the Archaeological Survey of India. It houses the findings and excavations at the archaeological site of Sarnath by the Archaeological Survey of India. Sarnath is located near Varanasi in the state of Uttar Pradesh. The museum has 6832 sculptures and artifacts. To keep the antiquities found from the site a decision was taken in 1904 by the Government to construct a site museum adjacent to the excavated site at Sarnath. It was due to the initiative of Sir John Marshall the then Director General of Archaeology in India that this museum was created. The plans were prepared by Mr. James Ramson the then consulting Architect to the Government of India. The building was completed in 1910 to house display and study the antiquities from their right perspective. The building forms half of a monastery in the plan. The museum contains five galleries and two verandahs displaying antiquities ranging from the 3rd century BCE to the 12th century AD that have been found at Sarnath.

Shree Annapurna Mandir
Annapurna Devi Mandir also known as Annapurna Mata Mandir and Annapurna Mandir is one of the most famous Hindu temples in the holy city of Varanasi. This temple has great religious importance in Hinduism and is dedicated to the goddess AnnAnnapurna Devi Mandir also known as Annapurna Mata Mandir and Annapurna Mandir is one of the most famous Hindu temples in the holy city of Varanasi. This temple has great religious importance in Hinduism and is dedicated to the goddess Annapurna. Annapurna is the Hindu goddess for nourishment and is a form of the goddess Parvati. The current Annapurna Mandir was constructed in the 18th century by Maratha Peshwa Bajirao I.

Sita Ki Rasoi


Hanuman Garhi Mandir
Hanuman Garhi is a 10th-century temple of lord Hanuman in Uttar Pradesh India. Located in Ayodhya it is one of the most important temples in the city along with other temples such as Nageshwar Nath and the in-construction Ram Temple.

Ram Janmabhoomi
Ram Janmabhoomi is the site that is hypothesized to be the birthplace of Rama believed to be the seventh avatar of the Hindu deity Vishnu. The Ramayana states that the location of Ramas birthplace is on the banks of the Sarayu river in a city called Ayodhya.

Triveni Sangam Allahabad


Anand Bhawan Museum
The Anand Bhavan is a historic house museum in Allahabad India focusing on the Nehru Family. It was bought by Indian political leader Motilal Nehru in the 1930s to serve as the residence of the Nehru family when the original mansion Swaraj Bhavan was trThe Anand Bhavan is a historic house museum in Allahabad India focusing on the Nehru Family. It was bought by Indian political leader Motilal Nehru in the 1930s to serve as the residence of the Nehru family when the original mansion Swaraj Bhavan was transformed into the local headquarters of the Indian National Congress. Jawahar Planetarium the planetarium is situated here which has been striving to inculcate scientific temper among masses through its sky shows on astronomy and science.

Khusro Bagh
Khusro Bagh is a large walled garden and burial complex located in muhalla Khuldabad close to the Allahabad Junction railway station in Prayagraj India. It is roughly 6 km from the Akbar fort built-in. Situated over forty acres and shaped like a quadrangle it includes the tombs of Shah Begum Jahangirs Rajput wife and the daughter of Raja Bhagwant Das and Khusrau Mirzas mother Khusrau Mirza Jahangirs eldest son and briefly heir apparent to the Mughal throne and Nithar Begum Khusrau Mirzas sister and Jahangirs daughter. It is listed as an Indian Site of National Importance.

Sita Kund


Sankat Mochan Hanuman Temple
Sankat Mochan Hanuman Temple is a Hindu temple in Varanasi Uttar Pradesh India and is dedicated to the Hindu God Hanuman. The temple was established by famous Hindu preacher and poet saint Sri Goswami Tulsidas in the early 16th century and is situated on the banks of the Assi river. The deity was named Sankat Mochan meaning the reliever from troubles. In the temple offerings to Lord Hanuman are sold like the special sweet besan ke laddoo which the devotees relish the idol is also decked with a pleasant marigold flower garland as well. This temple has the unique distinction of having Lord Hanuman facing his Lord Rama whom he worshipped with steadfast and selfless devotion.

Bharat Mata Mandir
Bharat Mata Mandir is located on the Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapith campus in Varanasi Uttar Pradesh India. Instead of traditional statues of gods and goddesses this temple has a huge map of undivided India carved in marble. This temple is dedicated to Bharat Mata and claims to be the only one of its kind in the world. The Bharat Mata Mandir structure is built of stone. It has a statue of Bharat Mata built of marble symbolizing undivided India. The temple houses a relief map of India also carved out of marble. The map depicts the mountains plains and oceans up to scale.

Tulsi Manas Mandir
Tulsi Manas Mandir is one of the most famous temples in the holy city of Varanasi. This temple has great historical and cultural importance in Hinduism since the ancient Hindu epic Ramcharitmanas was originally written at this place by Hindu poet-saint reformer and philosopher Goswami Tulsidas in the 16th century. Due to Ramcharitmanas the epic Ramayan was read by a larger number of people who otherwise could not have read Ramayan since it was in Sanskrit. Reportedly prior to Ramcharitmanas Lord Ram was depicted as a great King and it was Ramcharitmanas who bestowed him as a Deity. The temple was inaugurated by HH Dr. Sarvapalli Radhakrishanan. The temple houses a museum with a rare collection of manuscripts and artifacts.

Durga Mandir
Durga Mandir also known as Durga Kund Mandir and Durga Temple is one of the most famous temples in the holy city of Varanasi. This temple has great religious importance in Hinduism and is dedicated to the Maa Durga. Durga Mandir was constructed in 18th century by Rani Bhabani of Natore. Durga Mandir was constructed in 18th century by Bengali Maharani- Rani Bhabani of Natore. The temple is dedicated to the Goddess Durga. Next to the temple is a kund which was earlier connected to the river Ganges. It is believed that the existing icon of the goddess was not made by a man but appeared on its own in the temple.

Vishalakshi Temple
The Vishalakshi Temple or Vishalakshi Gauri Temple is a Hindu temple dedicated to the goddess Vishalakshi at Mir Ghat on the banks of the Ganges at Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh India. It is generally regarded as a Shakti Pitha the most sacred temple dedicated to the Hindu Divine Mother. The earrings of the goddess Sati are said to have fallen on this holy spot of Varanasi. The temple is situated by the famous cremation grounds of Manikarnika. Vishalakshi Temple is known for its temple festival on Kajali Tij held on the third day during the waning fortnight in the Hindu month of Bhadrapada. There are 4 incarnations of Adi para shakti is worshipped. Vishalakshi in North in kashi Renukakshi in West alibag or shreebag Meenakshi in South and Bahulakshi in East.

Saheliyon Ki Bari
Saheliyon-ki-Bari is a major garden and a popular tourist space in Udaipur in the Indian state of Rajasthan. It lies in the northern part of the city and has fountains and kiosks a lotus pool and marble elephants. It was built by Rana Sangram Singh.

Karni Mata Temple
Shri Manshapurna Karni Mata Temple is a Hindu temple located on the Machla Magra Hills near the Doodh Talai Lake in Udaipur Rajasthan. It enshrines the stone idol of Karni Mata. One can have very beautiful view of whole city and its lakes from the temple as well as while climbing.

Ranthambore Tiger Reserve
Ranthambore is famous for its tigers and is one of the best places in India to see the tigers in the jungle.

Padam Talab


Ranthambore Fort
Ranthambore Fort lies within the Ranthambore National Park near the city of Sawai Madhopur the park being the former hunting grounds of the Maharajahs of Jaipur until the time of Indias Independence. It is a formidable fort having been a focal point of the historical developments of Rajasthan. The fort was held by the Chahamanas until the 13th century when the Delhi Sultanate captur

Pangong Lake
Pangong Tso or Pangong Lake is an endorheic lake spanning eastern Ladakh and West Tibet situated at an elevation of 4225 m. It is 134 km long and divided into five sublakes called Pangong Tso Tso Nyak Rum Tso and Nyak Tso. Approximately 50% of the length of the overall lake lies within Tibet in China 40% in Ladakh India and the remaining 10% is disputed and is a de-facto buffer zone between India and China. The lake is 5 km wide at its broadest point. All together it covers almost 700 km2. During winter the lake freezes completely despite being saline water. It has a land-locked basin separated from the Indus River basin by a small elevated ridge but is believed to have been part of the latter in prehistoric times.

Phyang Monastery
Phyang Monastery Phyang Gompa is a Buddhist monastery located in Fiang village just 15 or 16 kilometres west of Leh in Ladakh northern India. It was established in 1515.

Leh Palace
Leh Palace is a former royal palace overlooking the town of Leh Ladakh in the Indian Himalayas. It was constructed circa 1600 by Sengge Namgyal. The palace was abandoned when Dogra forces took control of Ladakh in the mid-19th century and for

Leh Ladakh -   Ladakh India


Stok Palace Museum


Sankar Monastery
Sankar Monastery or Sankar Gompa is a Buddhist monastery within an easy half-hour walk from Leh in Ladakh northern India. It is a daughter-establishment of Spituk Monastery and the residence of the Abbot of Spituk the Venerable Kushok Bakula who is the senior incarnate lama of Ladakh due to his ancient lineage and personal authority.

Sukhna Lake
Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh India is a reservoir at the foothills of the Himalayas. This 3 km rainfed lake was created in 1958 by damming the Sukhna Choe a seasonal stream coming down from the Shivalik Hills. Originally the seasonal flow entered the lake directly causing heavy siltation.

Chamundeshwari Temple
The Chamundeshwari Temple is a Hindu temple located on the top of Chamundi Hills about 13 km from the palace city of Mysore in the state of Karnataka in India. The temple was named after Chamundeshwari or Durga the fierce form of Shakti a tutelary deity held in reverence for centuries by Mysore Maharajas.

Kedareswara Temple


Vindhyagiri Temple


Agonda
Agonda is a large village located in Canacona in South Goa district India. Agonda is famous for its beach and It is one of the only four beaches designated as turtle nesting sites under the Coastal Regulation Zone 2011 notification. There is one more beach on other siAgonda is a large village located in Canacona in South Goa district India. Agonda is famous for its beach and It is one of the only four beaches designated as turtle nesting sites under the Coastal Regulation Zone 2011 notification. There is one more beach on other side of Agonda cliff called Cola beach which has an adjoining lagoon.

Cola Beach
Cola Beach is a remote unspoiled beach for those seeking complete peace and relaxation 10km north of Agonda. Its not all that easy to find this place but it will be worth your effort. You park your bike or scooter where the road ends and then theres a 3-minute walk down to the beach. Cola beach looks beautiful through the trees from the top of the path. The beach is actually three small bays separated by large rocks. The middle beach covers a lagoon that stretches back into the jungle. When you walk down the stairs youll walk straight into the Blue Lagoon the only option for eating and drinking on Cola beach. You can also walk to Cola Beach from Agonda. Walk north from Agonda up to the crossing with a tiny market on the right. Turn left and follow the muddy road until you see the coast. You will find stairs that lead you around the resort directly to the beach. Depending on the tide you might get your feeds wet when entering the beach from the stairs. One direction should take you 1.5 hours.

Jallianwala Bagh
Jallianwala Bagh is a historic garden and memorial of national importance in Amritsar India preserved in the memory of those wounded and killed in the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre that occurred on the site on the festival of Baisakhi 13 April 1919. It houses a museum gallery and a number of memorial structures.

Golden Temple
The Golden Temple also known as Harmandir Sahib meaning abode of God ) or Darbr Sahib meaning exalted court  is a gurdwara located in the city of Amritsar Punjab India. It is the preeminent spiritual site of Sikhism.

Red Fort
The Red Fort is a historic fort in the city of Delhi in India that served as the main residence of the Mughal Emperors. Emperor Shah Jahan commissioned construction of the Red Fort on 12 May 1638 when he decided to shift his capital from Agra to Delhi. Originally red and white its design is credited to architect Ustad Ahmad Lahori who also constructed the Taj Mahal. It was

Jama Masjid
The Masjid-i Jehan-Numa commonly known as the Jama Masjid of Delhi is one of the largest mosques in India. It was built by the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan between 1650 and 1656 and inaugurated by its first Imam Syed Abdul Ghafoor Shah Bukhari. The Jama Masjid was regarded as a symbolic node of Islamic power across India well into the colonial era. It was also a site of political significance during several key periods of British rule. It remains in active use and is one of Delhis most iconic sites closely identified with the ethos of Old Delhi.

Shahin Arts


Amber Fort
Amer Fort or Amber Fort is a fort located in Amer Rajasthan India. Amer is a town with an area of 4 square kilometers located 11 kilometers from Jaipur the capital of Rajasthan. The town of Amer and the Amber Fort was originally built by Raja Man Singh and additions were later made by Sawai Jai Singh.

City Palace Jaipur
The City Palace Jaipur was established at the same time as the city of Jaipur by Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh II who moved his court to Jaipur from Amber in 1727. The Palace was also the location of religious and cultural events and a patron of arts commerce and industry. It now houses the Maharaja Sawai Man Singh II Museum and continues to be the home of the Jaipur royal family. The palace complex has several buildings various courtyards galleries restaurants and offices of the Museum Trust. Chairperson Rajamata Padmini Devi of Jaipur heads the MSMS II Museum Trust.

Hawa Mahal
Hawa Mahal is a palace in Jaipur India approximately 300 kilometers from the capital city of Delhi. Built from red and pink sandstone the palace sits on the edge of the City Palace Jaipur and extends to the Zenana or womens chambers.

Rose Gardens


Vazhachal Falls
Vazhachal Falls is situated in Athirappilly Panchayath of Thrissur district in Kerala on the southwest coast of India. Located on the west-flowing Chalakudy River near the Vazhachal Forest Division and at the edge of the Sholayar ranges it is just 5 km from entrance of Athirappilly Falls. It is located 36 km from Chalakudy.

Marina Beach
Marina Beach is a natural urban beach in Chennai Tamil Nadu India along the Bay of Bengal. The beach runs from near Fort St. George in the north to Foreshore Estate in the south a distance of 6.0 km making it the longest natural urban beach in the country. The Marina is primarily sandy unlike the short rocky formations that make up the Juhu Beach in Mumbai. The average width of

Gandhi Memorial Museum Madurai
Gandhi Memorial Museum established in 1959 is a memorial museum for Gandhi located in the city of Madurai in Tamil Nadu India. Known as Gandhi Museum it is now one of the five Gandhi Sanghralayas in the country. It includes a part of the blood-stained garment worn by Gandhi when he was assassinated by Nathuram Godse.

Pinjore Garden
Yadavindra Gardens also known as Pinjore Gardens is a historic 17th-century garden located in Pinjore city of Panchkula district in the Indian state of Haryana. Panchkula city is nearby. It is an example of the Mughal Gardens architectural style which was renovated by the Patiala Dynasty Sikh Rulers.

Bhoramdeo Temple
Bhoramdeo Temple is a complex of Hindu temples dedicated to the Lord Shiva in Bhoramdeo in the Indian state of Chhattisgarh. It comprises a group of four temples of which the earliest is a brick-temple.

Elephanta Caves
Elephanta Caves are a UNESCO World Heritage Site and a collection of cave temples predominantly dedicated to the Hindu god Shiva. They are on Elephanta Island or Gharapuri in Mumbai Harbour 10 kilometres east of Mumbai in the Indian state of Mahrshtra. The island about 2 kilometres west of the Jawaharlal Nehru Port consists of five Hindu caves and a few Buddhist stu

Malabar Hill
Malabar Hill is a hillock and upmarket residential neighbourhood in South Mumbai Maharashtra India. Malabar Hill is the most exclusive residential area in Mumbai. It is home to several business tycoons and film personalities. Notable residents include Adi

Shalimar Bagh
Shalimar Bagh is a Mughal garden in Srinagar Jammu and Kashmir India linked through a channel to the northeast of Dal Lake. It also known as Shalimar Gardens Farah Baksh and Faiz Baksh. The other famous shoreline garden in the vicinity is Nishat

Hazratbal Shrine
The Hazratbal Shrine popularly called Dargah Sharif is a Muslim shrine located in Hazratbal Srinagar Jammu and Kashmir India. It contains a relic Moi-e-Muqqadas which is widely believed to be the hair of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. It is situated on the northern bank of the Dal Lake in Srinagar and is considered to be Kashmirs holiest Muslim shrine. The name of the shrine is a combination of the Persian word hazrat  and the Kashmiri word bal. The shrine contains strands of what is believed by many Muslims to be the hair of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. The relic was first brought to Kashmir by Syed Abdullah Madani a purported descendant of Muhammad who left Medina and settled in the South Indian city of Bijapur in 1635 at a time when the Islamic Mughal Empire was rapidly expanding across India.

Radha Nagar Beach
Radhanagar Beach is one of the most famous attractions in Havelock Island and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands itself.

Elephant Beach
Elephant Beach is further north of Radhanagar and is popular with Indian tourists. The shoreline here was largely swept away by the 2004 tsunami and the beach is a fraction of what it used to be however the coral here is probably the best on the island making this an excellent spot for snorkeling. The walk is about 30 minutes at an easy pace with dry weather. Since the tsunami the path ends in an expanse of uninviting-looking swampy water.

Bharatpur Beach
Bharatpur Beach is one of the popular places to visit on Neil Island. Despite its minuscule tourist infrastructure Tranquil picturesque beach popular for swimming & activities like snorkeling & scuba diving.

Chidiya Tapu
Chidiyatapu is a beach situated 25 km from Port Blair. This place is mostly visited by tourists for the sunset view.

Wandoor Beach
Wandoor is a small village near the southern tip of South Andaman. There are two islands Jolly Buoy and Red Skin off the coast of wandoor village which are great tourist attraction because of the wealth of corals and marine life. At Jolly Buoy you will get to see corals (red blue sponge corals etc). Also you will be able to see life within these corals (particularly zebra fish). There are glass bottom boats to these islands and scuba diving and snorkeling is offered as a way to see the parks coral reefs and marine life.The other island called Red Skin Island. Both Jolly Buoy and Red Skin remains open for tourists for 6 months alternately. Tourists Wandoor  Jolly BuoyRed Skin is a day trip. Night stay not required. Boats from Jolly Buoy would return by 3 pm and then you can watch the sunset at Wandoor beach and return to Port Blair by bus.

Kalapani Museum
Exhibits exploring the history of the Andaman & Nicobar islands through photos paintings & models.

Kalapathar beach
The Kalapathar beach is situated on one corner of Havelock Island. The beach gets its name from the surrounding village called Kalapathar Village and the black rocks that adorn the coastline here. The emerald seas the tropical forests on one side of the road the coastline and on another side the silken smooth silver sands and the sheer solitude make this beach a great place to relax.

Delhi
Delhi is the capital city of India. Delhi is one of the most popular travel destinations in India. City has best infrastructure, high per capita income, most urban and traditional places and much more. Delhi has quite a rich history to explore and one cannot miss the delicious food of the city at all.

Best Time to Visit Delhi: You can visit Delhi 12 months of a year. However, you can avoid May and June which are hotter months.

How to Reach Delhi: There are direct flights and connecting flights from every part of the world to Delhi airport.

Attractions in Delhi: Some of the super popular attractions of Delhi are Red Fort, Qutub Minar, Humayun Tomb, Lotus Temple, Akshardham Temple, Chandni Chowk, Old Fort, India Gate etc.

Agra
Agra is a historical city in Uttar Pradesh state of India. Located in northern part of the country, it is world famous for Taj Mahal, one of the seven wonders in the world. City is beautiful and also known for its art and craft. One must taste variety of delicious foods of the city also.

Best Time to Visit Agra: One can visit Agra from January to December and may avoid May and June which are two hotter months.

How to Reach Agra: From Delhi it is within 250 KM distance and one can reach Agra from Delhi by Air, road and train.

Attractions in Agra: Some of the major attractions of Agra are Taj Mahal, Fatehpur Sikri, Agra Fort, Itimad-ud-dula’s Tomb, Jama Maszid, Mehtab Bagh and more.

Amritsar
Amritsar is a popular city in the state of Punjab in northern part of India. The city is famous for Golden Temple and Wagah Border. Amritsar is quite an old city and has gone through lot of tough times of terrorism in the past. However, now the city is beautiful and people from all round the world come here to explore the place.

Best Time to Visit Amritsar: You can visit Amritsar anytime of the year. However it would be appropriate if you avoid hot months of summer season in May and June.

How to Reach Amritsar: From Delhi and Chandigarh, you can reach Amritsar by train and road. You can also reach by air as Amritsar has its own domestic airport located only 11 KM away from the city center.

Attractions in Amritsar: Major attraction of Amritsar is Golden Temple, a religious and spiritual place for Sikhs and others. Wagah Border is another attraction of the city. Some other attractions of Amritsar are Gobindgarh Fort, Jallianwala bagh, Partition Museum, Ram Tirath and Rambagh Palace.

Jaipur
Jaipur is the capital city of state of Rajasthan in India. It is popularly called as ‘Pink City’ because of the color dominance in monuments here. World class festivals like ‘literature festival’, ‘fashion shows’ and many other international events are held every here which attracts thousands of visitors to the city apart from historical monuments.

Best Time to Visit Jaipur: Best time to visit Jaipur is 12 months of year. You may avoid May and June, the two hotter months.

How to Reach Jaipur: You can reach Jaipur from Delhi and Mumbai by Air, road and train easily.

Attractions in Jaipur: Some of the most popular attractions of Jaipur are Hawa Mahal, Amber Fort and Palace, City Palace, Jantar Mantar, Nahargarh Fort, Jal Mahal, Jaigarh Fort and more.

Udaipur
Udaipur is major tourist destination in Rajasthan, India. City is known for palaces, architectural beauty and lakes. Udaipur city is hemmed in by the ranges of Aravallis Mountain. You can visit this amazing city on your India tour.

Best Time to Visit Udaipur: Except hot summers in May and June, you can visit Udaipur for the entire year.

How to Reach Udaipur: Udaipur has its own domestic airport only 20 KM away from the city center. You can reach Udaipur by air from all major cities of India like Delhi, Mumbai and Jaipur. You can also reach Udaipur by rail and roadways.

Attractions in Udaipur: Udaipur houses some very beautiful tourist attractions. Some of the major attractions in the city include Udaipur City Palace, Lake Palace, Jag Mandir, Monsoon Palace, Ahar Museum, Jagdish Temple, Fateh Sagar Lake and Lake Pichola.

Jodhpur
Jodhpur is a major and popular tourist destination in Rajasthan, India. Jodhpur is also the second largest city in Rajasthan after Jaipur. Jodhpur is popular for being a major tourist destination not just in Rajasthan but in entire India. There are many palaces, forts, temples and other places of interest in Jodhpur that makes visitors time super enjoyable.

Best Time to Visit Jodhpur: You can avoid the hot summer months of May and June. Otherwise entire year is a good to visit Jodhpur. October to March is the best time.

How to Reach Jodhpur: Reaching Jodhpur is easy. You can choose air route, rail route or road route as per your convenience. The city has its own domestic airport which is connected to major cities of India like Delhi, Mumbai and Jaipur. You can also take train up to Jodhpur city and road trip is also easy.

Attractions in Jodhpur: Jodhpur has some amazing tourist attractions. Some of them are Mehrangarh Fort, Khejarla Fort, Umaid Bhawan Palace, Moti Mahal, Sheesh Mahal, Phool Mahal, Chamundadevi Temple, Ghanta Ghar, Mahamandir Temple and more.

Bharatpur
Bharatpur is a city in state of Rajasthan, India. Bharatpur is popularly known as ‘Eastern gateway to Rajasthan’. The city is also famous for its bird sanctuary housing more than 350 species of birds from regions across the border as well. Bharatpur is a cool tourist destination.

Best Time to Visit Bharatpur: You can visit Bharatpur any time of the year.

How to Reach Bharatpur: Bharatpur is only about 175 KM from Jaipur and 180 KM from Delhi. Nearest airport is Kheria Airport, Agra. So, you can reach Bharatpur by air, road and by train.

Attractions in Bharatpur: Bharatpur is famous for wildlife attractions. Some of the major attractions of Bharatpur are Lohagarh Fort, Fateh, Bharatpur Palace, LaxmanMandir, Deeg etc.

Attractions in Amritsar: Major attraction of Amritsar is Golden Temple, a religious and spiritual place for Sikhs and others. Wagah Border is another attraction of the city. Some other attractions of Amritsar are Gobindgarh Fort, Jallianwala bagh, Partition Museum, Ram Tirath and Rambagh Palace.

Chandigarh
Chandigarh is a Union Territory and capital of two states of India which are Punjab and Haryana. Chandigarh is known as the best planned and cleanest city in India. The city is naturally beautiful and one who is on India Tour must visit this amazing city at least once.

Best Time to Visit Chandigarh: Because Chandigarh is in Northern part of India so you can avoid visiting the city during hot summers in May and June. Other than these two months you can visit the city any time of the year.

How to Reach Chandigarh: Chandigarh has its own domestic airport. So, reaching Chandigarh by air is a good option. You can also reach Chandigarh from Delhi by road and train in just 4 hours.

Attractions in Chandigarh: You can enjoy your time in Chandigarh as the city is quite lively. Some very popular attractions of the city are Rock Garden, Rose Garden, Pinjore Gardens, Le Corbusier Center, Chattbir Zoo, Mohali Cricket stadium and Museum and art gallery.

Palampur
Palampur is a hill station in Himachal Pradesh, a northern state of India. Palampur is located in Kangra valley. Palampur is famous as ‘Tea Capital’ of north India as it is a major tea producer in Northern India. Apart from this, Palampur is a great travel destination for everyone and especially for those who love beautiful hill stations.

Best Time to Visit Palampur: March to December is the best time to visit Palampur. You can avoid cold winters time.

How to Reach Palampur: There is Gaggal Airport, only 50 KM away from Palampur. You can also take rail route up to nearest Pathankot railway station, 90 KM away from Palampur. You can also reach by road route.

Attractions in Palampur: Being a hill station, Palampur is a scenic beauty. You can see Saurabh Van Vihar, NeugalKhad, Andretta Artist Village, Palampur Tea Garden, Birni Devi Temple and more. You can also enjoy adventure activities like Paragliding and trekking at Palampur.

Dharmsala
Dharmsala is a popular hill station travel destination in Himachal Pradesh, northern part of India. Located in Kangra valley, Dharmsala is sitting at the height of over 1400 m above sea level. Dharmsala has thick deodar trees, snow covered mountains and old monasteries.

Best Time to Visit Dharmsala: March to December is the best time to visit Dharmsala. But if you love snow covered mountains then even January is a great time to be here.

How to Reach Dharmsala: Gaggal is the nearest airport, about 10-12 KM away from Dharmsala. Nearest railway station is Pathankot, 85 KM away from Dharmsala. Popular road route is there from Delhi and Chandigarh.

Bandhavgarh National Park
Bandhavgarh national park is a popular park in Madhya Pradesh, India. This is a must see place for forest life, wild animals, nature lovers. You can see Royal Tiger in Bandhavgarh National Park which is a delight. Spread over 100 Sq. Km, you can see majestic view of the national park for a great time.

Best Time to Visit Bandhavgarh National Park: You can visit Bandhavgarh National Park 12 months of a year.

How to Reach Bandhavgarh National Park: You can fly to Khajuraho from many places in India like Delhi and Varanasi. From there you can drive to the entrance of the national park. Nearest railway station is Umaria and from there it is about 40 minute drive to the Bandhavgarh National Park.

Attractions in Bandhavgarh National Park: You can enjoy a great wildlife tour in Bandhavgarh National Park. You can enjoy Jeep Safari, Elephant Safari and more. You can also see Bandhavgarh Fort, Baghel Museum, Village Tala, Fossil National Park and other attractions here.

Kanha National Park
Kanha national park is a major attraction in Madhya Pradesh, India. It is located in dense Satpura forest. Kanha national park is also popular for tiger reserve. The park is a part of Maikal chain of hills and spreads over 900 Sq. KM area. You can visit this amazing landscape and wildlife place for a great time.

Best Time to Visit Kanha National Park: Best time to visit Kanha national park is in winters from October to March.

How to Reach Kanha National Park: The nearest airport to Kanha national park is Jabalpur which is 160 KM from the park. You can also take trains to Jabalpur or Gondia and then reach the park by road. From several cities around Madhya Pradesh you can take bus route as well to reach Kanha national park.

Attractions in Kanha National Park: Being a popular and major wildlife place, major attractions are animals especially tigers, birds, flora and fauna. You can enjoy Jeep safari and elephant safari here. Other nearby attractions is Bandhavgarh National Park, Pench National Park, Tadoba National Park and Jabalpur city.

Goa
Goa is the most popular beach destination in India. Located in western part of India, this is one city which is super popular among foreign visitors because of cool beaches, international cuisine, restaurants, bars and much more. Goa hosts several festivals like Goa Carnival that attract thousands of visitors every year from all over the world.

Best Time to Visit Goa: You can visit Goa any time and if you plan for festivals then you can plan your trip around that time also.

How to Reach Goa: Goa is closer to Mumbai, the financial capita of India. From there one can reach Goa by air and road easily. Now there are waterways also being developed from Mumbai to Goa.

Attractions in Goa: Beaches are most popular attractions in Goa. Some popular beaches in Goa are Baga Beach, Calangute Beach, Candolim Beach, Arambol Beach, Palolem Beach and others. Apart from beaches other popular attractions of Goa are Grand Island, Dudhsagar Waterfalls, Fort Aguada, Tito’s Street, Bom Jesus Basilica and more.

Backwaters of Kerala
Kerala is a hot favorite tourist destination in entire Asia region. One of these reasons is backwaters of Kerala. Kerala Backwaters are a chain of brackish lagoons and lakes that lie parallel to the Arabian sea coast which is known as Malabar coast of Kerala in India. This huge network of backwaters in Kerala covers almost half the length of Kerala which includes five large lakes linked by canals which are both man made and natural and is fed by 38 rivers. So this is the immensity of Backwaters of Kerala. Now most amazing thing about the backwaters is that they create magnificent scenic views and when you are in Kerala you cannot simply miss boat tour here on the backwaters.

Mumbai
Mumbai is world famous tourist destination in western part of India. Mumbai is also known as financial capital of India. Mumbai is famous for several reasons like for film industry, stock market, famous sea beaches, lively nightlife, great food, hundreds years of history and culture. Foreign visitors come to India and generally land in Mumbai first and if not they don’t leave India without visiting Mumbai.

Best Time to Visit Mumbai: Mumbai climate is good and you can visit this world class city any time of the year.

How to Reach Mumbai: Well, Mumbai has international airport well connected from all the major cities in the world. In India also you can go to Mumbai by air, road and train from all the major places.

Attractions in Mumbai: Mumbai has lot of attractions and to name a few of them are Gateway of India, Juhu Beach, Haji Ali, Kala Ghoda Art Precinct, Mahalaxmi dhobi ghat, Elephanta caves, Marin Drive Beach, Siddhivinayak Temple, Bandra Worli Sea Link etc.

Kolkata
Kolkata is prime tourist destination in eastern part of India. Kolkata is a colorful and cultural city. Kolkata is popular as ‘City of Joy’. Once the capital of India during British Rule, Kolkata still has lot of footprints of those times which can be seen in architectural gems of the city even now.

Best Time to Visit Kolkata: Though you can visit Kolkata any time of the year, however best time to visit the city is between October and March.

How to Reach Kolkata: From lot of cities around the world there are direct and indirect flights to Kolkata. You can also reach Kolkata easily from any part of India by road, rail and air.

Attractions in Kolkata: Kolkata has lot of tourist attractions. Some of those which you should explore on your Kolkata visit are Victoria Memorial, science city, Kalighat, Chinatown, Zoological garden, Kumartuli and Birla Planetarium.

Pushkar Camel Festival
India is a great country of diverse culture and traditions. These can be observed in different festivals celebrated in different parts of the country. You can see colors, dance, cattle, people and more as part of these festivals. One such festival which is celebrated in the state of Rajasthan and Ajmer district is Pushkar Camel Fair. Pushkar is a town in Ajmer district and state of Rajasthan in India. Today Pushkar Camel Fair is popular in the world and so tourists from across the world come here to observe, participate and experience the beautiful colors and expressions of Pushkar camel fair. The festival is celebrated for a week and lot of activities draw attention of tourists here. Rajasthan travel is already quite popular among foreign travellers and they come here to see Jaipur, Udaipur, Bikaner, Mount Abu and other parts of the state.

Hill Stations in Himalayas
Himalaya has been a sense of wonder for people from across the Globe for centuries. Travelers from India and all parts of the world continuously visit India especially for Himalaya tours. Over the years several hill stations in Himalaya attract hundreds of visitors with modern infrastructure in place. Shimla, Nainital, Dharamshala, Manali, Mussoorie, Ladakh, Rishikesh are some very popular hill stations in Himalayas in India. Here are several popular hill stations in Himalayas.

Hill Stations in India
Here we will see some other famous hill stations in India. Ladakh and Spiti valley in the upper regions of Himalaya are one of the most beautiful places not just in India but in the entire world. Other hill stations in Himalayas are easily accessible and thousands of tourists visit them during a year from all parts of the country and the world. Weather, natural beauty, food, people, adventure and much more comes in a single package when you visit these hill stations in Himalayas in India.

Spiti Valley
Travelling is making your fantasy come true. And there are some places on the planet earth which once seen make you experience something which is difficult to express in words. A true traveler goes extra mile and takes risks to explore such places. Talking about such places, Himalaya has plenty of them. Some terrain of Himalaya is tough and one needs to adventurous to go and see these terrains. One such place is Spiti Valley. Spiti Valley sits at an altitude of 12,500 feet above sea level in the state of Himachal Pradesh in India. Spiti valley is a cold desert mountain valley in the Himalayas. Spiti means ‘The middle land’, the land between Tibet and India.

Road Trip to Ladakh & Spiti Valley
It is known to all that when you are on an India tour then you must visit Delhi, Agra in North, Goa in West, Kerala in South and several other famous tourist destinations in India. But those who love adventure and off the beaten path travel experience they can touch high peaks of Himalayas. Spiti valley by road is once in a life time experience. Then there is the roof of the world known as Ladakh. Road to Spiti from Manali is an absolutely tough terrain but roads going to Leh Ladakh from Manali-Khardungla pass are better and well connected. Ladakh is accessible both by road and by air but road trip to Ladakh has best of travel experience.

Trekking and Mountain Adventure in India
Himalaya has been described by thousands of people in different ways yet no one has been able to spell the beauty and mistery of it in words. Those who have not visited Himalayas want to go there at-least once in their lifetime and those who have been there cannot stop wishing to explore more of it. The existence of Himalayas in India and the topography of various locations give the country the tag of being one of the most fascinating trekking places on the globe. Trekking and mountain adventure in the Himalayas give everyone a chance to gain an insight into the archaic pulchritude of the places along with intriguing flora and fauna of it. In India alone there are several trekking and mountain adventure peaks of Himalayas which one can explore.
Bosnia and Herzegovina
A country nestled within the Balkan region, Bosnia & Herzegovina is one of Europe’s most visually impressive corners. The places to visit in Bosnia are a delightful fusion of the East and West, modern and historic, unspoiled natural gems and likeable attractions. Here is where you can see the minarets and domes imprinting the skyline or the ancient woodland covering the gamut of glorious reds and gold, find traces of the past in the artisan workshops, gape in awe at the turquoise waterfalls, lakes and rivers and hear the church bells while you move along the shepherds still tending their flocks on steep hills. Feel the lively city vibes at the quirky bars of Sarajevo, wander through the colourful bazaars of Mostar or see its famous Old Bridge, hike up to the Dinaric Alps, enjoy the beauty of unspoiled natural parks or go down the deepest canyon in Europe. For every right reason, the beautiful country of Bosnia gives visitors the real taste of Europe and once you head out to explore the incredible Bosnia Tourist Attractions, you will be lured to discover more! Most of the travellers prefer to invest their quality holiday time in the country’s major drawcard which is its capital city Sarajevo. It is noteworthy how the city has risen from being a centre of warfare to becoming Europe’s most likeable and best value capital today and it further continues to remodel itself as the symbolic city of cultures and modernity, a city of festivals and a city of hope and happiness. The arresting charm of Sarajevo is depicted with its abundance of busy cafés serving the Bosnian coffee in an old-school way and not to forget the abiding tradition of hospitality; however, the breathtaking backdrop of seemingly endless hills, towering mountains and its ancient Ottoman-era wonders are what seep into the soul. Of all, the most visited and remarkable Sarajevo Attractions include Baščaršija which is not just the historic and cultural centre of the city but also its beating heart and also the Tunnel of Hope which truly brings you back in time. Go and explore Sarajevo now before the crowds get there.Looking to discover the real treasures of Bosnia? Here, you will find the Best Bosnia Attractions with a list of unmissable places to visit in Sarajevo that will surely help you plan your perfect vacation!
Sarajevo International Airport


Sarajevo
Sarajevo is a city that has seen its fair share of historical events; it witnesses the outbreak of WWI, communist rule and its own civil war in the early 1990s. Some of Sarajevo is Latin Bridge, Bascarsija, Sarajevo City Hall, Sarajevo Cable Car, National Museum of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Tunnel of Hope, Historical Museum of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sacred Heart Cathedral and many more.

Mostar
It’s a famous UNESCO world heritage site and a frequent tourist attraction for its beauty, architecture and the Stari Most. The Bosnia sights are full of mosques, market stalls, traditional restaurants and a landscape to be explored. Some of the things to do and see in Mostar are Stari Most, Blagaj Monsatery, and the ‘Don’t Forget’ Stone, Čaršija, Bridge Diving, Kravice Falls and many others.

Blagaj
Blagaj is a small village town situated at the Spring of Buna River and was built around 1520. The earliest settlement was located the Blagaj Fort. As there was more of agricultural activity, there was less of modernization. It has elements of Mediterranean and Ottoman architecture style. Few things to do and see in Blagaj are Blagaj Tekke, Restoran Vrelo and Stjepan Grad.

Travnik
Travnik was a former Ottoman Empire which has many claims to fame, making it an interesting place to visit. It is the birthplace of famous Bosnians and best known for its sheep’s cheese. Skiing and hiking are favourite activities of the people in this village. This is one of Bosnia and Herzegovina tourist attractions for its many coloured mosques, Old town fortress, Viziers' graves, Hadji Ali-bey mosque, and Plava Voda.

Pocitelj
Pocitelj is a historic village cum open-air museum located in the municipality of Capljina. In the middle ages, it was the centre of governance of Dubrava County. In 1471, it was conquered by the Ottoman and remains under its rule up to 1878. The main feature of this place is its 16th-century Islamic structures, including Hadzi Alija mosque, madrasa, tower, fortress, bathhouse and a fortress. Pocitelj is one of the places to visit in Bosnia and Herzegovina as it UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Trebinje
Trebinje is located beside a gently flowing river in the heart of Bosnia and Herzegovina’s wine county. Around the 18thcentury, the town was established. The old town is the banks of Trebisnjica River which flows into the heart of the city. These are some of the few things to see and do in Trebinje such as Hercegovacka Gracanica, Arslanagica Bridge, Tvrdos Monastery, Trebinje Old City, Holy Transfiguration Orthodox Cathedral, Fort Strac (Tvrdava Strac), Monument to the Soldiers Killed in the Defense of the City.

Jajce
Jajce is a small city, central not only geographically but also culturally. It’s a historical gem and one of the best preserved fortified capitals in the Kingdom of Bosnia and has been the home of Ottoman governors, medieval kings and communist strongholds. It is well-known for its waterfall which is in the middle of the town between the Pliva and Vrbas River. While you are here, you can visit Pliva Falls, Jajce Fortress, Jajce Catacombs, Pliva Lakes, AVNOJ Museum, Stroll around the Old Town.

Stolac
Stolac is one of the oldest towns in Bosnia where the area has been settled for at least 15,000 years. The town has produced a rich array of artists, intellectuals, poets and leaders. Today, Stolac is seen almost like a ghost town, where the marks of all ruins from the war are visible everywhere. However, it’s one of the places to visit in Bosnia to stroll around, drink tasty wine, eat figs or explore the region by bike.

Drina River
Drina River forms a large portion of the border between Bosnia and Serbia. In the middle of the river rests a little house on its rocky perch since the year 1969. It’s been more than 40 years and the nameless cabin is spared by falling of waters and annual rising. The curiosity of this cabin has attracted many visitors to the river after it was listed as ‘photo of the day’ by National Geographic.

Una National Park
The Una National Park was established in the year 2008 and it is one of the third national parks in BiH. It covers the upper canyon of the Una River, and along its course, there are a large number of waterfalls, and unique ecological and hydrological phenomena. The tufa cascades id the main value of the Una River, while the others are Strbacki Buk, Martin Brod and Troslap.

Tuzla
Tuzla is the third largest city in the country and centre for cultural, economic, health, education of northeast Bosnia. The unlikely serendipity of this city has given the opportunity to many adventurous travellers.  The city was never affected by war, and therefore it offers many attractions for visitors such as The Old Town, Turalibeg’s Mosque, The National Theatre, Kapija, Orthodox Cathedral, The Lakes, Saints Peter and Paul Franciscan Monastery and many others.

Kupres
Kupres is one of Bosnia and Herzegovina tourist attractions as it’s famous for its ski resorts. It is also an ideal vacation destination for hunting, paragliding or hiking. The culture of Bosnia Croat culture also happens in the tiny town between Livno and Bugojono. The people of this town celebrate their biggest festivals on the first Sunday of every July where old methods of farming are done.

Medjugorje
Medjugorje is a small town located in Herzegovina and closes to the border of Croatia. The name also has its own meaning which means “between mountains.” It has always been a popular and famous pilgrimage site due to the alleged apparitions of the Virgin Mary. The theory behind the apparition started in 1981 when six children have seen the visions of the Blessed Virgin Mary which has made the place an unapproved Catholic pilgrimage destination.

Ilidza
Ilidza is located in Sarajevo Canton, and it is known to have attractive geography. Though the city is surrounded by mountains yet it is built on a ground level. The biggest mountain in the city is Mt. Igman which sits above the city, and on the mountains, you will find the Lily family grown here. There has been a number of archaeological finds in the Bmir area. The modern town of Ilidza was found during the Ottoman rule of the country.

Konjic
Konjic is a small mountainous, heavily wooded town located in northern Herzegovina. It’s one of the oldest permanent settlements in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The natural beauty that surrounds the town makes the town attractive to many tourists. Kamena cuprija, is one of the best attractions to visit the town, destroyed during world war II but rebuilt in 2009.

Kravica Waterfall
Kravica Waterfall, also known as Kravice is a large tufa cascade located in the centre of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The falls are surrounded by forest all around it, but it has an area with a little cafe, picnic area, a rope swing and a camping area. The best time to visit the falls is during springtime, the landscape turns bright green at its fullest.

Jahorina
Jahorina is a mountain in Bosnia and Herzegovina with its Ogorjelica as its highest peak. The peak has an elevation of 1,916mts, making it the second-highest mountains in Sarajevo. This place is of strategic importance during the Bosnia War, and some of the areas of the mountain and near the resort still contain landmines.

Brcko
Brcko is a town located in northern Bosnia and Herzegovina on the banks of Sava River. It’s a seat of Brcko District and a beacon of multi-ethnicity. It has many spots to see and visit with an interesting political history. The town is Bosnia’s fourth region and the only free city in Europe.

Banja Luka
Banja Luka is the second largest city in Bosnia and Herzegovina and lies on the Vrbas River. The name is interpreted as ‘Ban’s meadow’, though there are different interpretations made in regards to its interpretation. In the early 1990s, its economy was badly affected by the Bosnia war, but in recent years it’s got a stagnant economy. While at Banja Luka, you can visit Vrbas River, Cathedral of Christ the Saviour, Banja Luka, Krupa Water Falls, Ferhadija Mosque.

Blidinje Nature Park
The nature park was established on 30th April 1995, represents an important hydrological and natural preserving in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It consists of major mountain ranges of plateau Dugopolje, Dinaric Alps range, and Blidinje Lake and Grabovica valley. Its only an hour’s drive away from the sea, the atmosphere attracts tourist during all seasons.

Lukomir Mountain Village
It is often called “the last Bosnian village” which sits above sea level on the Bjelasnica Mountain. If you are looking for things to do in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the mountain village is a popular tourist destination for travellers seeing outdoor activities. It is easily accessible by car, but roads are closed during the winter season, so you might have to walk or ski to reach this place.

Sutjeska National Park
The national park was established in 1962, and it’s Bosnia and Herzegovina's oldest national park. The Maglic is the highest peak at over 2.386 m in height. The splendid national park is ideal for hiking, trekking etc. The largest lakes in the park are Piva and Drina, and the main basin is formed by the Sutjeska River. The park’s vegetation comprises of mountain pastures, thick forests and rocky ground.

Prokoško Lake
The Prokoško Lake is also called “mountain eye”, not far from a small town called Fojnica. Prokoško Lake has been declared the national monument due to its exceptional position in the centre of the mountain. The lake is protected by state of Bosnia and Herzegovina; it hugs a lot of mountain peaks which are higher than 2000m. The view from Hrid cliff shows the hidden beauty of the place.

Tara River Canyon
The canyon is one of Bosnia tourist attractions for its turquoise blue river fed by the mountains of Durmitor National Park in Montenegro. Around its convert deep, that’s where it lies the deepest, and it’s this feature which makes it the deepest river canyon in Europe and the world. The river is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site and it is protected as a part of the DNP.

Lukomir
Lukomir is a village in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it consists of two settlements called the Gornji and Donji Lukomir. It is a well-known heritage site and one of the most remote villages in the country. It sits on the Bjelasnica Mountain at an altitude of 1,49m. Amongst all, it is one of the villages that survived the war and thus considered a national monument.

Volujak Mountain
Volujak is a huge mountain massif on the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. It one of the beautiful mountains ranges in Montenegro with an untouchable divine nature. Its summit offers the climbers to admire the magical beauty of Maglic, Durmitor, Trnovacki and Bioc. The hiker should know that the area is relatively wild and a remote place, so you should be prepared for what’s worth.

Vjetrenica Cave
Vjetrenica Cave is one of the largest cave and Bosnia and Herzegovina tourist attractions to see and visit. There are many streams, lakes along the stream which are about 180m long. It is also one of the richest biodiversity caves in the world. About eight fossil animals have been found in this cave of the leopard and cave bear. The cave has also been a place of interest for many types of research which may be traced back to the 16th century.

Latin Bridge
The Latin bridge is of significant importance in the historical events of Sarajevo, located over the river Miljacka. This is the site where Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria was assassinated by Gavrilo Princip in 1914. It was after this incident that sparked World War I. Today, you can walk across the bridge and see where the historical event happened. Its one of the Sarajevo sights to visit and see during a city tour.

Bascarsija
The old Bazaar is the historical and cultural centre of the city, a preserved example of oriental architecture in the Balkans. The market is in a maze structure where craftsmen make and sell their products in small shops. At one time, each of these streets was dedicated to different kinds of crafts such as jewellery, metalwork, pottery and many others. But, now most of them have been converted into cafes and souvenir shops.

Sarajevo City Hall
Sarajevo City Hall, also known as Vijecnica is located in the city of Sarajevo. It was designed by Karel Parik, a Czech architect but he stopped working on the project. The building was reopened in 2014 and served as a city hall. The interiors are well intricated with a stained glass ceiling. In the basement, you will find an exhibition which explains about histories of the various 20th centuries, insights into culture, fashion and even revelations about the love life of Francis Ferdinand.

Sarajevo Cable Car
The cable car can accommodate a total of 1,200 people. It has 33 cabins and the ride takes about 7 minutes. One cabin can take 10 people i.e. a maximum of 750 kg. The distance between each of this cabin is about 150 metres and is supported by 10 columns. The price of the tickets varies for citizens of different countries.  And, all the cabin are pet-friendly. When you’re up in the cable care, you will see a panoramic view of the city.

Tunnel of Hope
It is one of Sarajevo tourist places as it is of historical significance. When Sarajevo was under the siege of Bosnia Serbs forces, the tunnel was the only way to go to the outside world. It is a tunnel which stands between two houses at a length of 800m and 1.6m in height. And, the tunnel saves the life of many people as it was the way to regain access to food, supplies, communication and electricity. After, the war it became a museum which exhibits the item from the time of the Siege of Sarajevo.

Historical Museum of Bosnia and Herzegovina
The history museum of Bosnia and Herzegovina was founded on the 13th of November, 1945. And, ever since, the museum was built for a purpose. The Museum has had its name changed many times and it’s was in 1949, it was named Museum of National Revolution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The museum has more than 400,000 historical artifacts.

Sacred Heart Cathedral
The cathedral, commonly known as Sarajevo Cathedral is a seat of the Archbishop of Vrhbosna. It is located in the old town of the city and a centre of worship for the Catholics. During the war, the building was damaged but not completely in ruins and since then it has been repaired. The design on the door is part of the flag and seal of Sarajevo Canton.

The Yellow Fortress
The Yellow Fortress, also known as Jekovac Fortress is one of the main fortifications that make up the defensive wall of Vratnik. It is located on Jekovac cliff. It’s only 15 mins walk away from Bascarsija which gives you the best view of the old town and the sites along with it. It quite a long walk, but it's worth once you see the amazing city hall Vijecnica shining so bright.

Avaz Twist Tower
If you want to see Sarajevo tourist places, the Avaz Twist Tower is one of the sights you should keep on your list. The view is amazing from the 36th floor, and on the 25th floor, you can have some snacks or coffee and still enjoy the view. It is a 176m tall skyscraper which is known for its twisted facade. The tower has fast paranomic elevators giving all visitors a chance to peek into every nook and corner of the city.

Old Sarajevo Clock Tower
The Old Sarajevo Clock Tower is one of the largest clock towers in the country and its located next to the Gazi Husrev-beg Mosque. Once a week the time is set manually by the caretaker, and the clock shows a lunar time. Since it on lunar time for the religious purpose, most tourists think that the clock tower is keeping a bad time. Even the locals are unaware of the strange timepiece, yet it fails to rest despite what anyone thinks!.

Sebilj Brunnen
The fountain is always bustling with people as it’s a landmark of the old city. Many visitors come here as they stumble upon it at some point or the other. It’s an Ottoman wooden style fountain built in 1753. There are many replicas to this museum; one is a landmark in Birmingham, St. Louis, Missouri, in the United States and city of Rožaje, Montenegro.

Gazi Husrev Beg Mosque
The Gazi Husrev Beg Mosque is the largest mosque in the city of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since the time it was built till today, it is the main congregation mosque in the city. It also attracts many visitors as its one of the main architectural monuments in the town. During the siege of Sarajevo, this mosque was also a target like any others, but it's one of the largest and best-known targets.

Jewish Museum
The Jewish Museum is one of the oldest synagogues in the city which is well adored by many visitors for its elegant and pure, and a bit of rustic shape. The exhibition is on the ground floor and there are parts of some inheritance of prominent artist, scientist and social activist.

Eternal Flame
The Eternal Flame is a memorial of the Second World War military and civilian victims. It was dedicated to them in the year 1946, during the liberation from Nazi Germany. The inscription talks about the courage and blood that was sacrificed by the people of the country. And, the flames never ever stop burning here at Eternal Flame.
Moldova

Old Orhei


Butuceny


Cricova


Clisova Noua


Soroca Fortress


Puhoi


ASCONI Winery


Bendery Fortress
Bendery is a city which is part of the historic region of Bessarabia, and today is officially known as Bender. Out of all the cities in Transdniestr, this is the greener on among them. During the civil war, the city underwent through rough turmoil and some its remains are there in the form of bullet holes. But, despite its history, yet the city is full of life with fun and friendly people

Tiraspol


Purcari


Mihai Codreanu Memorial House - the Sonnet Villa


Chisinau
Chisinau is the capital city of the Republic of Moldova. It’s the largest city and commercial centre of the country. Located in the middle of the country, the city is modern and friendly and has many attractions to offer visitors. Like any other cities, there’s no shortage of cafes, nightclubs, art galleries, casinos and spas. It is Moldova tourist attractions popular for places like Pushkin Park, Orange pyramid, Nativity cathedral and many others.

Tipova Monastery
It’s located in the most remote part of the country and comprises of three complexes. The oldest complex amongst them is the Church of the Feast of the Holy Cross while the two are the church of St. Nicholas and Horodiste.  At the end of the path to the caves, there’s a beautiful waterfall.

Saharna Monastery
Saharna is a small village which is now becoming Moldova tourist attractions and very popular among tourists. At this village, there’s a beautiful monastery called The Holy Trinity Monastery which is breathtakingly beautiful. Anyone who visits the place come for peace and serenity that permeates the place. It’s also a pilgrimage for Christians as the footprint on the rock is believed to be of Virgin Mary’s

Soroca City
Throughout Moldova’s history, the city has played a very important role in its location on the Dniester River. It was this point of the area that armies were able to defend the country from any kind of attack. The Soroca fortress was an important site as it was a military stronghold built in the 14th century.

Capriana Monastery
Capriana is one of the oldest monasteries in the country, located in a lush green forest. Completed in the 15th century, it used to be the home of the Moldavian bishop. The largest convent library is also on its premises which were reopened in 1989 after years of neglect. Codru is another big attraction which is also the oldest nature reserve in Moldova

Orheiul Vechi
Orheiul Vechi is just a few hours away from the capital city of Moldova and it’s an incredible sight to see in the country. It’s an archaeological building with rich historical and cultural significance. For things to do in Moldova, this is a place of natural beauty which features ruins, monasteries, fortifications, baths and caves which all date back to the Dacian tribes

Manastirea Curchi
It’s one of the most beautiful monasteries in the country and has even won an award for it. Manastirea Curchi is a must place to visit in Moldova and has a complex which is made of several abbeys, churches, and refectory and monk cells. It’s got the inspiration for its architecture for the Bessarabia style. At the centre of the complex is the Mother of God Church

Transdniestr
Transdniestr is supposed to be the oddest place in Eastern Europe. It’s been declared an independent republic but it’s still officially still apart of Moldova. The country has its own currency and police system and borders which still hold on to the Soviet aesthetic culture throughout the region. It’s one of the strangest places but visiting the country is one of the things to do in Moldova

Gagauzia
Gagauzia is a region ma up of three town and 27 villages with the culture and history hugely influenced by Turkey. Although, the people in the region are Christians, yet most of them have ancestors who were Muslim refugees fleeing from place to place. Most of them had to convert to stay in the region. With its distinct history and culture, it’s become Moldova tourist attractions

Valea Morilor Park
The park is just minutes walk away from the city centre and yet its world apart. It is one of the most beautiful places in the country and perfect for getting away from the hustle and bustle life of the city. There are many people who come to the park and relax or do other activities. In the summer time, it’s a perfect place to take some steam off the heat.

Cricova Winery Underground Wine Cellar
This is the second largest wine cellar in the country producing about two-thirds of wine consumed in Russia. But, now Russia has banned taking Moldovan wine due to some diplomatic issues. The country has had a very long history in producing and consumption of wine and there’s no better place to see the wine cellar than taking a tour to Cricova Winery Underground Wine Cellar

Nativity Cathedral Chișinau
The cathedral is in the heart of the city. It’s the main cathedral built in the 1830s in neoclassical design. One of its halls has been turned into an exhibition centre. The whole area of the cathedral will give a feeling of serene ambience to all its visitors. The interiors are adorned with fine creative art and fine architecture.

National Museum of History of Moldova
The museum is located in the central of the city and takes a visitor on a tour to the past and history of the country. It’s of historical importance and one of the most significant museums in the country. The museum houses at least 165,000 collections of an item related to its national heritage. If you are thinking of things to do in Chisinau, get an insight into the history of the country with an intriguing exhibition and masterpieces.

Parliament of the Republic of Moldova
The Parliament of the Republic of Moldova is one of Chisinau tourist attractions. It worth a visit to see and know the political views organised in the parliament. It’s the supreme body and the only state legislative authority in the country. The president of the country is elected by the Parliament with a minimum of 52 votes of the members of the Parliament.

National Museum of Fine Arts
It’s one of Chisinau attractions for art lovers mainly and another tourist alike. It a great place to see the fine art of the country and the talent of the artist. It’s a marble-floor art gallery who houses some of the most exquisite artworks. The interiors of the place are amazing to gaze as they have the most creative and beautiful interiors of the world

Ștefan Cel Mare Central Park
The oldest park in the country stretches over 7 hectares of the area. It features a beautiful waterfall with a lush green park with ample of birds all over the place. The park is very quiet and a peaceful place to come and relax from the hustle and bustle life of the city and the crowd. The park is also known as Park of Lovers as it’s a popular meeting spot for couples.

Triumphal Arch, Chișinau
Triumphal arch, Chișinău is situated next to the Nativity Cathedral built in 1840 to commemorate the victory of the Russian Empire. The monument was made with smelted copper of the canons which the Russians got from the Ottoman Empire. Initially, the bell was made for the cathedral’s belfry but it happened to be too big and this installed in this arch

Chișinau Botanical Garden
Chișinău Botanical Garden was founded in 1950 located in the capital city and covers 76 hectares of area. In 2001, a large portion of the garden was given to lease to private companies which then established zoo, playgrounds, restaurants and ice cream parlours. It’s one of the most relaxing and clean places to visit in Chisinau

Chisinau Zoo
The zoo is surrounded by lush greenery with interesting animals to see as Banteng, tigers, Przewalski horse, European beaver, leopard and zebra, the Turkmen kulan, lion, lynx bear and monkeys. There are many species of birds, including the black vulture, mandarin duck step eagle, and the barnacle goose. The surrounding and landscape of the zoo are beautiful all throughout the seasons.
Turkmenistan

Independence Park
The park is located in the southern outskirts of the city next to 10-Anniversary of Prosperity avenue and Archabil avenue. Its territory occupies 140 hectares which is almost half of all the Ashgabat green open space.Groomed paths marble stairs and porches flowerbeds and cozy benches are all necessary attributes of a recreation-and-entertainment park. But Independence Park is better known for its monuments located in its territory. Moving along the main alley with five-headed eagles-fountains and statues of national heroes you will go up by a wide marble stairs to the Independence Monument.This 118-m column topped by a crescent moon with five stars symbolizes the unity of five Turkmen tribes. The lower part of the monument is made in the form of a huge yurt which houses the Museum of Independence inside it.

Altyn Asyr bazaar
Oriental bazaar Altyn Asyr also known locally as Tze jygyldyk is the largest market in Turkmenistan and the fifth-largest in Central Asia. It is located in the outskirts of Ashgabat in the residential area Choganly. It was built to resemble the shape a Turkmen carpet ornament of Ahal Province.

NIKE Turkmenistan Berkarar Mall
Shopping and entertainment center Berkarar is located in the southern part of the city at the intersection of 10 Yil Abadanchylyk and Ataturk. The complex includes a 12-story round tower business center and adjacent to it a four-story shopping mall and parking lot for 1300 cars with canopies.

Old Nisa
18 km to the west from Ashgabat there overlook the ruins of Nisa the capital of ancient Parthia existed at the turn of the I millennium BC and I millennium AD. In the III century BC New Nisa was the capital of Parthia and the Old Nisa fortress was an imperial residence at that time.Old Nisa was the place where palace and temple buildings were concentrated. There also located a treasury huge wine warehouse and storerooms with numerous stocks. The fortress walls were 8-9 m thick in their base and were strengthened with 43 rectangular towers.The latest find in Old Nisa a unique fresco fragment is a genuine masterpiece of Parthian pictorial art.The fortress at Nisa was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 2007.

Kow Ata
It is a natural underground lake. The name translated from Turkmen means father of caves. Located 100 kilometers from Ashgabat. The water temperature is from 33 to 38  C all year round.at a depth of 55m from the cave entrance is the underground lake. With a length of 70m and a depth of 10m or more the lake is known for the warm temperature of its water.The water also has a high mineral content prompting both claims about the health-giving properties of a swim and warnings that bathers should not stay in the water for too long. But the sulphurous smell from the lake coupled with the half- sensed presence of bats overhead also gives the place something of an underworld quality. The climb back towards the growing patch of light at the cave entrance can feel like the ascent towards salvation. Or at least towards a world less pungent.

Neutrality Monument
Monument of Neutrality is a monument originally located in Ashgabat Turkmenistan. In 2010 it was moved to the suburbs. The three-legged arch which became known locally as The Tripod was 75 metres tall and was built in 1998 on the orders of Turkmenistans President Saparmurat Niyazov to commemorate the countrys official position of neutrality. It cost 12 millio

Ashgabat National Museum of History


Turkmenbashi Ruhy Mosque
Turkmenbashi Ruhy Mosque is located about 7 kilometres west of the Ashgabat city centre. It was built in the home town of President Saparmurat Niyazov with a mausoleum in preparation for his death. The mosque has been at the centre of controversy as scriptures from both the Quran and the Ruhnama are built into the walls.

Erturul Gazi Mosque
Erturul Gazi Mosque or rtogrul Gazy Mosque is a mosque in Ashgabat Turkmenistan. It is named after Erturul the father of Osman I founder of the Ottoman Empire and was built by Hilmi enalp. It is a prominent landmark in Ashgabat with its four minarets and a central dome and has a lavish interior decoration with fine stained glass windows.

Darvaza Gas Crater
Darvaza gas Crater locally known as ‘Door to Hell’ or ‘Gates of Hell’ is a natural gas field collapsed into an underground cavern located in Derweze, Turkmenistan. Geologists set it on fire to prevent the spread of methane gas, and it is thought to have been burning continuously since 1971. The crater is a popular tourist attraction

Karakum Desert


Koneurgench


Dashoguz


Merv
Merv is now known as Mary who was founded in the 6th century by Cyrus. It used to be an important archaeological site on the Silk Road, the part of old Persia. The town used to be alive with bustling cities and one of the largest cities in the world before the invasion of the Mongols which now remain as ruins

Mausoleum of Soltan Sanjar


Balkanabat


Yangykala Canyon


Turkmenbashi


Caspian Sea


Russian Market
The Russian Bazaar or Gulistan in Ashgabat is one of the largest and oldest covered markets in the Turkmenistan. It is located in the centre of the city.The Russian Bazaar was built in the period of 19721982 by the design of the Russian architect Vladimir Visotin among other buildings that were included in the Ashgabat Reconstruction Program of 1970-1980. The building was done in the Soviet Modernism style and decorated by the Turkmen sculptor Klych Yarmamedov who adored the building with a magnificent abstract sculpture placed in one of the buildings corners.

Ruhyyet Palace
Ruhyyet Palace is a palace in the capital, Asgabat in Turkmenistan, built by the French Company Bouygues. The palace holds official state events, forum, meetings and inaugurations

Konye Urgench, Khorezm Region
Konye Urgench is located on the left bank of the Daria River on the western part of Turkmenistan. It used to be the capital city of the Khorezm Region and destroyed by Ghengis Khan and water. But, irrespective of its past, the old town still remains strong with sites like Soltan Tekes mausoleum and Gutluk Temir Minaret.

Nisa
The ancient city used to be an ancient settlement of the Iranian people. It was an important Parthian Empire in the city of Ashgabat which was completely destroyed by an earthquake occurred in the first decade BC. The ruins of this fortress are now inscribed in the UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Sarakhs
Sarakhs is located in Ahal’s province which was an important oasis on the Silk Road. The tomb of Sufi Abul Faz also known as Serakhs baba is also located in the city. It’s also a burial site of the famous Shiek Agmed Khady which goes by the name of Yarty Gumbez mausoleum.

Dekhistan
The city is located near the Caspian Sea in western Turkmenistan which is supposed to be one of the most unusual cities in the country. There’s a lot of historical monuments that have survived in this city even though there’s not much of construction activity that’s taken place in the past till today.

Annau Archaeological Site
It’s on the Silk Road where the first excavations started in the year 1904. And, during this time there were many items found in the remnants such as remains of camels, children’s skeletons, pottery and decorations etc. From these remains, it is believed that it must have been the first place where camels were domesticated

Ashgabat City
Ashgabat city is the capital city of Turkmenistan and one’s the country’s largest city. It is home to the famous and largest mosque in Central Asia which is popularly known by the name Turkmenbashi Ruhy Mosque. There are several attractions one can find in and around the city such as the Wedding Palace, Turkmen carpet museum and many others

Abiverd Ancient Town
It is an archaeological site created in the year 1993 and has a collection of over 200 objects in the region of Akhal. It’s a medieval town which is often cited along with the sources of Nisa, especially since the Arab conquest. There are ruins of Turkmen village, traces of Seljuk found in this region
Albania
Amazing old castles, beautiful Ottoman stone towns, countless wonders of nature, remote mountain ranges surrounded by beaches and quaint villages running along with the modernity of a quirky, modern capital- you can see it all if you decide to visit Albania-Europe’s unpolished diamond! Still very much off the beaten path, Albania attractions are slowly but surely being revealed to the outside world after the country threw off its shackles of communism and opened doors to the world. Thanks to long, untold history, Albania’s scenic countryside and its welcoming locals, the country has managed to make a visible mark on the tourist map. Today, if you head out to explore the country, you'll always have something new to experience in its picturesque towns of Gjirokaster and Berat, the quaint and quiet Theth, the seaside town of Himara and the colourful capital city of Tirana. With all these and more delightful places to visit in Albania, you could spend weeks exploring the country’s nooks and crannies without getting bored.  Once you decide to visit Albania, it’s hard to pass over the eccentric capital, Tirana, which is popular for its remarkable history and rugged backdrops. Not only is it the largest city in Albania and the easiest place to start your journey from, but Tirana is also a lively place thriving on never-ending energy that oozes out of its wealth of clubs, bars, cafes and taverns. As a capital, Tirana attractions include the country’s finest museums, theatres and galleries representing the national arts. Of particular interest is BUNK’ART, which was once a huge government bunker but now hosts art installations. Of all the magnificent Tirana Tourist Attractions, you must not skip a visit to the Skanderbeg Square which is a worthy starting point as it sits right in the heart of the city. Albania is surely and swiftly catching the traveller’s interest. So hurry here before the majority of the travelling crowd catches the wind of the buzz. Below is the list of best Albania Tourist Attractions and Places you must visit including the most impressive places to visit in Tirana.
Byzantine Walls
The Walls of Constantinople are a series of defensive stone walls that have surrounded and protected the city of Constantinople since its founding as the new capital of the Roman Empire by Constantine the Great.

BoVilia Lake


Skanderbeg Square


Kruja


Koman Lake


Belshi Lakes


Pyramid Of Tirana


National Heroes Cemetry


Durres


shkoder


Bovilla


Tirana


Kulla e Sahatit


National Arts Gallery


National Heroes Cemetery


Albanian Alps Tour


Rozafa Castle


Berat Castle


Et'hem Bej Mosque


Palace of Culture


Tirana Castle


Ethnographic Museum


Albanian Alps


Dajti Mt National Park Information Center


Muzeu Kombëtar Gjergj Kastrioti


Albanian Riviera
If you are thinking of the things to do in Albania, explore Albania Riviera and its beaches. Albanian Riviera is named Top Value Destination of 2012, for its rolling hills and unspoilt sands, rustic accommodation, grilled meats and cold beers. Here’s a list of some of the attractions you can visit while you are at the Albanian Riviera such as Llogara Pass, Llogara National Park, Gjipe Canyon & Beach, Butrint Archaeological Site and National Park, Saranda at the Corfu Strait, Ksamil Islands south of Saranda, and many others.

Porto Palermo Castle
The Porto Palermo Castle is few km along the Albanian Riviera in the bay of Porto Palermo. It was ranked as Europe’s 15 undiscovered destinations in 2014, and it's protected by the Albanian Government. It was built in the 19th century probably by the Venetian as the same structure is found in the Venetian fort. And, in 1921, it was named Venetian. It’s also known as Castle of Ali Pasha dark inside but really a worthwhile site to see and explore the battlements, which also give a good view of the sea.

Llogara Pass
The Llogara Pass is one of Albania Tourist Attractions, it’s a mountain pass along the Albanian Riviera within the Ceraunian Mountain. The nearest city is Orikum which on the northern side of the pass and the Dhermi village in the south. The pass is also part and parcel of the Llogara National Park. The road was built in the 1920s, and recently in 2009, the road got very narrow, almost in a single lane.

Blue Eye
The famous Blue-eye is a water spring and natural beauty that every visitor should see and visit. The beautiful turquoise is an oasis of fresh air, tropical paradise that can beat off the other tropical islands. The depth of the river is supposed to be 50 m, but many divers have gone in, and it’s still unclear of the actual depth of the hole.

Lively Saranda
Saranda is one place that has attracted many travellers as its Albania Tourist Spots. Saranda is the kind of place excellent for day trips which will let you experience a different side of Albania. The humming beach town can get a bit crazy in the summer time. Here at this site, you get to see Albania intricately woven with natural beauty, history and grandeur shores. While you are in Saranda, you can enjoy the clear water of Ksamil or walk through the old ruins of Butrint!

Valbona and Theth
Theth is a small village town in Albania and its hiking destination. Travellers start off from here and get to Valbona where they reach the top of the mountain. The way is very steep, but there are also some flatter parts. You will find a few cafes along the way, including a stop at the peak. It is truly worth taking the hike as the view from the top of the mountains is something you will never experience from any city. The panoramas over the valley on the other side will make you not regret the journey!

Ksamil Islands
Ksamil Islands has just started to get its prominence in recent years, and it has been a hidden gem on the Albanian Riviera. The paradise beach offers crystal clear water and white sand with a Mediterranean climate. It is located in southern Albania, unlike most beaches; this beach is less crowded as it’s most popular among the locals. There are many islands in Ksamil, but the most famous one amongst them is the Twin Islands which has their own beauty and charm.

Gjirokaster
Gjirokaster is a small Ottoman town which turned out to be Albania's Most Beautiful UNESCO Town. This town sets it apart from the other regular towns in Albania for its unique stone houses, cobbled streets and small like a fortress. The town is located near the bazaar and date back its history to the 17th and 18th centuries. It’s no wonder why Albanians are so proud of this historical site, and it’s also considered a cultural city because of the birth of the famous Albanian writer Ismail Kadare.

Berat - The City of a Thousand Windows
The UNESCO World Heritage site is well-known for its historical sites and scenic beauty. It’s Albania’s most important cities and it’s the best preserved Ottoman cities in the Balkans. What really makes the site a special dime is its traditional style of Balkan houses and they hold on to it and carry the style forward till today. The houses here have two floors, with large windows, roofs covered with ceramic tiles. Due to the construction of the houses on the steep hill, they appear to be stacked on one another. And, thus the view from afar makes it look like the city of thousand windows.

Berat - The City of a Thousand Windows
The UNESCO World Heritage site is well-known for its historical sites and scenic beauty. It’s Albania’s most important cities and it’s the best preserved Ottoman cities in the Balkans. What really makes the site a special dime is its traditional style of Balkan houses and they hold on to it and carry the style forward till today. The houses here have two floors, with large windows, roofs covered with ceramic tiles. Due to the construction of the houses on the steep hill, they appear to be stacked on one another. And, thus the view from afar makes it look like the city of thousand windows.

Shkodra - The cultural capital of Albania
Shkodra is the cultural centre of Albania and it’s one of the oldest cities in Europe. It was founded in the 3rd century by the IIIyrians. It has a pleasant temperature with an amazing infrastructure as some buildings in the Old Town went through rebuilding and revamping leaving the facades still fresh, yet elegant and colourful. It’s known as the culture of Albania due to the rich cultural history it offers which is more than what it has to show in the way of sights.

Durres - The largest amphitheatre in the Balkans
Durres is listed on the ten most beautiful Roman amphitheatres, and thus remains one of the most majestic sites of the ancient world. It is a treasure of the Balkans that’s slowly getting the way of its shell. The Amphitheatre of Durrës was built after the 2nd century and considered to be the greatest Roman construction under the Roman Emperor Trajan. The arena has witnessed many events which had almost 20,000 spectators who watched the gladiator show.

Korçë - The City of Serenades
Korçë is a small city in south-eastern Albania known for it’s composed of low houses, typical quarters which are covered with cobblestone. You will find a wide number of museums here such as the Education Museum, the renewed National Museum of Medieval Art, the Prehistoric Museum and many others. The Theatre Cajupi is also a famous Albania Tourist Places in Korçë.

Vlora
Vlora was originally known as Aulona, and it’s an ancient city founded in the 6th century B.C. The town is adorned with huge palm trees and enjoys a beautiful position in front of Sazani Island and Karaburuni peninsular. Thus, it’s very close to scenic mountains and rocky beaches which makes is the second largest port in the country. If you are wondering about things to do in Albania, visit Vlora and its attractions such as The Mosque of Muradie, The Vlora Bay, Triportus, The Museum of Independence and many others.

Pogradec
Pogradec is a small city situated in the east of Albania surrounded by hills and water on all sides. During the communist era, the place was once a very popular lakeside resort with a richness of natural beauty. It is a serene city which is in contrast to the chaotic, buzzing and austere urbanism. This is a truly interesting place to visit the Driloni National Park, Royal Tombs of Selca E Poshtme, Golik Bridge, Pogradec castle, Depo Complex and many others.

Apollonia - The city of Apollo
Apollonia was an ancient Greek city which is left in ruins now on the bank of Aous River. It was first founded by the Albanians then after it was discovered by the Greek. There has been some excavations dugout at these ruins, some antiquities and a large collection of Roman statuary. The town thrived when the Roman was ruling and it was mentioned in the writings of Cicero. Even after severe devastation by the earthquake, the site still remains to be Albania Tourist Attractions.

Valbona Valley National Park
It is a National park located inside the Albanian Alps encompassing the Valbona River and its surrounding areas with landscapes, terrain, rocks, deep depressions, waterfalls and forests. The park is characterised by exceptionally rich and varied fauna such as grey wolves, brown bears, chamois, wild boar, roe deer, golden eagle, and western capercaillie. Valbona Valley National Park is also a habitat for the endangered lynx. You can see the breathtaking views of Valbona Valley National Park from Maja e Popluks, Maja e Rosit and Valbona pass.

Butrint National Park
The Butrint National Park is one of Albania tourist spots which are a National Park with wetlands, freshwater lakes, reed beds, salt marshes and islands. There are about 1,200 animals and plants species found in the park. Butrint National Park was established to preserve the ecosystem, habits as well as the cultural heritage. Over 400 species are distributed across the park ranging from reptiles, mammals, amphibians, fish, birds and few wild animals.

Dardhe
Dardhe is a small community in Albania which is popularly known as the top ski destination in Albania. In 2012, the first ski tow was opened near Dardhe at the Bigell Ski Resort. The mountainous areas are hit by the heavy snowfall which thus makes it a good spot for Skiing. Many tourists come here as it as snow destination with low budget. Though the resort doesn't meet much to other European resorts, yet the accommodation is affordable and pleasant. It cost 40-60 Euros per person inclusive of accommodation, guide, skiing equipment and instructor.

Lake Koman
Lake Koman is situated in northern Albania and it’s surrounded by deep gorges, slopes, forested hills and a narrow valley. The lake is fed by the Drin, the Valbona and the Shala Rivers. The combination of the geographical, hydrological and topography conditions have contributed to the formation of animals such as the red fox, golden jackal, Eurasian otter, beech marten, European badger and the European polecat.

Dhermi
A small village in Vlore County built on the slope of Ceraunia Mountains of Albania. It comprises of two neighbours which is Kondraq and Gjilek. The youths of Albania consider this place as a nightlife destination. Some of the attractions are Drymades Beach, Alevra, Gramata harbour, the Pirates' cave, and the harbour of Gjipe, Hypapante Church, Panagia Monastery Church, Dhërmi and St. Stephen's Church.

Himare
Himare is a small and traditionally preserved town built on a hill in southern Albania. The town has a wide number of monasteries and orthodox churches such as Athaliotissa, Monastery of the Cross, Saint Theodore, Virgin Mary in Dhërmi and Saint Demetrius. Himare has a lot to offer to tourists, discover the best top things to do in Himare, Albania including Dhermi Beach, Baraban Bar, Penisola Di Porto Palermo e Castello, Gjipe Beach, Livadhi Beach, the Castle of Himara, Ali Pasha Castle, and Jale Beach, Himara Seas the Day, Llamani Beach, and Restaurants in Himare.

Mount Dajti and Cable Car
If you want to get to the Mountain of Tirana, Dajti, you can take the cable car which takes only 13 minutes. You can see everything from up there, the streets, the run-down village houses and a brief summary of life in Albania and its history. The ruins at Dajti dates back to aeon years ago. From the top, you can spot military camps, location of political prisoners during the communist rule. It is said that these mountains are full of skeletons.

Downtown Tirana
It is a 140-metre skyscraper in Tirana which will soon become one of Albania’s tallest buildings. The 37 storey tower is one of the places to visit in Tirana as has the most striking elements of houses and offices in Albania. It envisioned as an expression to show the development of Albania. Every house or office represents a town or a village so that when its seen from afar forms an abstract map of Albania.

Blloku
One of the things to do in Tirana is to visit Blloku, an upmarket city in Albania. It is popularly known as an entertainment destination along with its shops, boutiques, restaurants, pubs, trendy bars and cafes. After the fall of communism, the area became alive and more attractive than ever. There has been a lot of developments taken place with many new apartments and flats. Though a small and quiet area, it offers many places to see and things to do.

BunkArt & BunkArt2
It was originally codenamed as “Objekti Shtylla,” and was built in the 1970s with over 100 rooms. The place is now a cultural centre, but with remembrance and preservation of the dark years under Hoxha’s rule. It is now known as Bunk’Art with 24 rooms and has been turned into a history museum and art gallery. You can still see the preserved quarters and meeting rooms during the time when it was under Hoxha’s rule. The BunkArt2 is the latest museum open on 17 November in Tirana.

National History Museum
The Historical Museum has 18,000 square metres just for expositions. At the entrance of the museum, there’s a large mosaic titled The Albanians exhibiting Albania’s ancient to modern figures history. The museum includes the Pavilion of Antiquity, National Liberation Antifascist War, Renaissance, Middle Ages, Iconography, Independence, Communist Terror, and Mother Teresa.

Clock Tower
The clock tower of Tirana is a monument of culture which is 35 metres tall and was the tallest building at that time; it has about 90 steps in a spiral fashion. It was built by the Ottoman Turks and the bell was originally from Venice, but it was destroyed during WWII and replaced with a Roman numeral clock in 1946. Then, in 1970, it was again replaced by the Chinese clock. So, the tower has gone through many renovations to become what it is today.

Et’hem Bey Mosque
Et’hem Bey Mosque is an 18th-year-old mosque built in 1791 and completed in1819. There used to be an old bazaar in front of the mosque but it got destroyed in WWII. During the time of the atheist campaign, the mosque was spared from destruction because of its status as a cultural monument. The mosque consists of a portico, a prayer hall and a minaret. The entrance of the prayer hall is well constructed which is a square plan in a unique volume. It is fully covered in the dome and has no windows.

Grand Park of Tirana
The Grand Park of Tirana, also known as the park on the artificial lake is situated on the southern part of Albania. There are many landmarks around the park such as the Presidential Palace, the Saint Procopius Church, the Zoo and Botanical garden. The park was built between the years 1955 and 1956. It includes the Royal Palace where the Italian King Victor Emmanuel III resided during his visit to Albania.

Tanners’ Bridge
The 18th-year-old Ottoman footbridge connected Tirana with Debar; it’s located near the Tanner’s Mosque. This was the route which brought livestock to the city, with butcher shops and leather workers were located near the area. It was diverted in the 1930s, but it was again restored in 1900s for use by pedestrians. An artificial pond was also recreated on both sides during the time of its restoration.

Christ Orthodox Cathedral
Located in the heart of the city, the construction of this church was constructed in 2012 and has rapidly gained many visitors. The Christ Orthodox Cathedral is the third largest in the Balkans, and the religious complex includes the Cathedral, residence of the Holy Synod, Chapel of the Nativity, a cultural centre, small chapel and a library. The entire complex is adorned with beautiful architecture and its interiors are all harmonised with mosaics, Frescoes and iconostasis.

Pazari i Ri
The Pazari i Ri is also known as New Bazaar went through renovation from being just simple fruits and vegetable market to a beautiful space area. Along the street, there are many coffee shops, meat and vegetable vendor covered in elegant black glass. The space in the market is called Markata e Gjelber which means The Green Market. There are many places to eat and the biggest of them all is seafood at reasonable prices.
Lithuania

Kaunas Castle
Kaunas Castle is a medieval castle in Kaunas the second-largest city in Lithuania. Archeological evidence suggests that it was originally built during the mid-14th century in the Gothic style. Its site is strategic  a rise on the banks of the Nemunas River near its confluence with the Neris River. At the beginning of the 21st century about one-third of the castle was still standing.

The Church of Saint Anthony of Padua


Gediminas Tower
Gediminas Tower is the remaining part of the Upper Castle in Vilnius Lithuania. The first wooden fortifications were built by Gediminas Grand Duke of Lithuania. The first brick castle was completed in 1409 by Grand Duke Vytautas. The three-floor tower was rebuilt in 1933 by Polish architect Jan Borowski. Some remnants of the old castle have been restored guided by archaeological re

Lake Galv
Lake Galv is a lake in Trakai Lithuania. It has 21 islands and one of them houses Trakai Island Castle. Trakai Peninsula Castle is located on its southern shore. There are ruins of the little Orthodox church in Banytl Island. Trakai was the capital of the GrLake Galv is a lake in Trakai Lithuania. It has 21 islands and one of them houses Trakai Island Castle. Trakai Peninsula Castle is located on its southern shore. There are ruins of the little Orthodox church in Banytl Island. Trakai was the capital of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania from 1321-1323 before moving to Vilnius. The lake and most of the other lakes surrounding the castle and city have myths and legends connected to them of which most contain a tragic love story.

Gate of Dawn
They’ve made a graceful presentation of the Blessed Mother inside a house of prayer. It’s above the road in the southern end of the Old Town. At the point when John Paul was chosen Pope in 1978, he covertly requested his cardinal's cap to be snuck into then-Soviet-involved Lithuania and be set before this symbol of the Blessed Mother - an amazing emblematic symbol at the time. Pope John Paul visited this house of prayer in 1993. It is a standout amongst the most vital notable destinations in Lithuania.

Trakai Island Castle
Trakai Island Castle is an island castle located in Trakai Lithuania on an island in Lake Galv. The construction of the stone castle was begun in the 14th century by Kstutis and around 1409 major works were completed by his son Vytautas the Great who died in this castle in 1430. Trakai was one of the main centers of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the castle held great strategic

Vilnius Cathedral
The Cathedral Basilica of St Stanislaus and St Ladislaus of Vilnius is the main Roman Catholic Cathedral of Lithuania. It is situated in Vilnius Old Town just off Cathedral Square. Dedicated to Saints Stanislaus and Ladislaus the church is the heart of Catholic spiritual life in Lithuania.

St. Peter and St. Pauls Church Vilnius
St. Diminish and Paul's Church is an extravagant artful masterpiece known for its remarkable interior with around two thousand stucco statues, in addition to it is truly certain that the creators of this church knew precisely the correct method for picking the right floor covering. Because Pope John Paul II visited this country, the square before the church is named after him. It was financed by two of Pac's cousins, who constructed this masterpiece work. It was finished under a few ace skilled workers including the Polish Jan Zaor and Italian Gianbattista Frediani, the plain façade hides out the interior by Giovanni Pietro Perti and Giovanni Maria Galli that is genuinely shocking.

Presidential Palace Vilnius
The Presidential Palace located in Vilnius Old Town is the official office of the President of Lithuania. The palace dates back to the 14th century and during its history it has undergone various reconstructions supervised by prominent architects including Laurynas Guceviius and Vasily Stasov. The Palace traces its history back to the 14th century when Jogaila the Grand Duke of Lithuania issued a proclamation donating land in the city to the Vilnius Diocese for this reason the palace is sometimes referred to as the Bishops Palace.

Trakai Island Castle Museum
Trakai Island Castle is an island castle located in Trakai Lithuania on an island in Lake Galv. The construction of the stone castle was begun in the 14th century by Kstutis and around 1409 major works were completed by his son Vytautas the Great who died in this castle in 1430. Trakai was one of the main centers of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the castle held great strategic importance. The castle was rebuilt in the 1950s-1960s by the Lithuanian initiative although it had received resistance from Soviet authorities. The Trakai History Museum was established after the reconstruction.

Sapieha Palace Vilnius
Sapieha Palace is a High Baroque palace in Sapiegos str. Antakalnis district of Vilnius Lithuania. It is the only surviving of several palaces formerly belonging to the Sapieha family in the city. The palace is surrounded by the remains of the 17th-century formal park with parterres ponds and avenues. The impressive Baroque gate secures the entrance to the park from Antakalnis street and the other gate is on the opposite side of the park near the palace. Both of them were restored in 2012.

KGB Museum Vilnius
The Museum of Occupations and Freedom Fights in Vilnius Lithuania was established in 1992 by order of the Minister of Culture and Education and the president of the Lithuanian Union of Political Prisoners and Deportees. In 1997 it was transferred to the Genocide and Resistance Research Centre of Lithuania. The museum is located in the former KGB headquarters across from Lukiks Square and is informally referred to as the KGB Museum. The museum is dedicated mostly to collecting and exhibiting documents relating to the 50-year occupation of Lithuania by the Soviet Union the anti-Soviet Lithuanian partisans and the victims of the arrests deportations and executions that took place during this period.

Vilnius City
Vilnius, the capital city of Lithuania is a hidden jewel of Europe, and when you find it, it’s heavenly. It’s not even in eastern or central Europe but a Baltic state in northern Europe. For centuries, this city has attracted merchants and tradesmen or for those fleeing religious persecution. The city is carpeted with greenly forests, hill, rivers, parks and woods. There are few popular Lithuania Tourist Attractions and parks around the city such as Pavilnian & Verkiai, Vingio & Kalnu, which hosts many cultural events and other activities.

Curonian Spit
The Curonian Spit, a thin curve sand-dune pit was inscribed as a cultural landscape by World Heritage List in 2000. It’s one of the popular places to visit in Lithuania. The two countries, Russian and Lithuania made a commitment to protect the interest of the place from natural destruction and illegal human activity. It has a unique, sandy and a cultural landscape with few Curonian lagoon settlements. It was formed by the sea, wind and with some intervention of human activity.

Kaunas City
Just like Vilnius, this city is hidden. But, again, it’s the second biggest city in Lithuania. Kaunas boasts some of its museums, architect and historically important sites that make the trip worthwhile. The city can be reached from Vilnius by an easy train ride which is a day trip and reasonable. It listed as one of Lithuania Tourist Spots for places to see such as Laisves Aleja, Old Town, Town Hall Square, Santakos Park and many others.

Trakai Island
It is located in Trakai, Lithuania between the hills, forests and lakes. It’s the only island castle that was built in the 14th century by the Lithuanian Duke and it’s served as his residence at the city was a capital. The architecture is what defines the beauty of this place and today; it’s a palace open for tourists. The place cum museum exhibits a wide display of medieval arts. One of the main events which attract locals and tourists alike is the Knight Competition. There are various events that take place here and many water activities in the lake.

Hill of Crosses
A pilgrimage site located 12km north in a small city, Siauliai, Lithuania. Just on one hill, there are about 200,000 crosses already which show a sign of Christian devotees and memorial to Lithuanian’s national identity. The crosses are made of so many different sizes and materials, some of which are wood, granite, metal and piled on top of each other. It’s all a mystery of how this tradition started with many theories to it. It a popular Vilnius Tourist Places.

Hill of Witches
There’s a forest alive with a vast array of crow-monsters, creatures, devils and evil spirit in Juodkrante. It’s known as the Hill of Witches, and a trail through the woods takes visitors through a trip through the folk history of Lithuania. It started as a sculpture park, and now there are about 80 wooden carvings from local artists. Each of these sculptures represents a character from the pagan and folk traditions in this place.

Druskininkai
This is one of the ultimate spa resort towns in Lithuania, and it’s close to the borders of Poland and Belarus. In the middle ages, the place was inhabited by the local tribes called Yotvingian tribes. The first time the place was ever mentioned dates back to 1636. There are few places you’ll experience sue something new while you are here such as the spring of beauty, the island of love, the old Druskininkai cemetery, Zilvinas path and many others.

Palanga
The universal seaside resort of Lithuania is located 29 km away from Klaipeda. The seacoast is famous for its sandy beach and sand dunes where it cannot be found anywhere else on the Baltic Sea. The place was originally a fisherman’s village and was had its first mention in the 12th century. The inhabitants were not just involved in fishing, but they were also in gathering amber and trade it in many countries of Europe.

Visaginas Town
It’s the youngest town situated on the shore of the lake Visaginas. It was planned on an 8 min principle so that the town remains in the heart, and can be reached to any place in 8-10 minutes. The architecture of this tow is well-balanced and has multiple-storey houses harmonizing beautifully with a city flower garden. The city street leads to the town’s lake and parks, beach and sports ground. The lake is filled with beautiful islands.

Užupis
It’s one of the smallest republics in the world located within the Lithuanian capital of Vilnius. Though it small, doesn’t be fooled by its size, it boasts its own government, president, constitution and currency. And, also, it has its own navy which consists of three or four small boats. It has a very close resemblance to Soviet Bloc’s architecture and artistic flair.

Rumsiskes Open-Air Museum
The museum was established in 1966 in Rumsiskes, and it is now one of the largest ethnographic open-air museums in Europe. The museum’s exhibit the regions of Lithuania that were ethnographic in nature such as Sodovia, Dainava, Highlands, Samogitia as they witness the end of the 18th and the first half of the 20th century. The exhibitions consist of a train wagon, pit yard, bunker and memorial moments. Many of the exhibitions operate during the summer with a number of activities including pottery workshops, baking bread, wearing traditional costumes and many others.

Aukštaitija National Park
The park compromise of forests, pine and inhabited by many animals such as deer, elk and wild boar. It has about 126 lakes, and Lake Tauranga, being one of its deepest. There’s a footpath that leads to a hill where the beauty of the seven lakes unfolds. In particular, Lake Baluosas is very pretty and its surrounded by woods a dotted with small islands. There are plenty of golden eagle prey and white-tailed strokes here. This park can be visited only with the guides.

House of Perkūnas
It's one of the original examples of late Gothic architectural structures in Lithuania. It was built at the end of the 15th century by hanseatic merchants and served as a Jesuit chapel, a school and a warehouse. But, now it's back into the hands of the Jesuits who use it as an art classroom. There’s a small exhibition inside dedicated to Adam Mickiewicz, a 19th-century romantic poet.

Lithuanian Sea Museum
This is one of the kind museums in the Baltic and shows at least six expositions all very different ones. The museums show in more than just aquatic performing animals, there are the penguins, fish-laden aquaria and performing dolphins. Apart from the animals, there are other few sensations to see such as the recreated fishing village and the three Soviet-era trawlers. The exhibitions are all presented in English and it’s a perfect place for younger and older people alike.

Lithuanian Zoo
The zoo was previously known as Kaunas Zoo and situated in the Oakwood park of Kaunas. It was built in 1938 by a teacher named, Tadas Ivanauskas. In the beginning, there were only about 40 creatures that were uncovered there and all brought to the zoo by Tadas himself or from different zoos. By 1940, the number of animals amplified two times and it’s now home to about 250 species alongside monkeys, tigers, lions and many others.

Palanga Amber Museum
Palanga was a part of the Lithuania Art Museum.  It was established in 1963 on the estate of Count Feliksas Tiskevicius. The design of the estate was built by a German architect, and as for the landscape, it was built by a different architect. The exposition of the museum takes about 15 rooms and exhibits about 4,500 pieces of works here. There are variations of amber found here, and visitors get well acquainted with the procedure of processing, application etc.

Panemune Castle
It’s a typical 17th-century feudal castle, and its first owners were supposed to be Hungarian. The castle had its defensive tackles, farm buildings, and living quarters. It’s known to be among Lithuania’s authentic castle since it hasn’t changed its architectural style with the passage of time. The castle is beautiful and at the same time, its majestic shapes witness the ambition of the Hungary noble, which shrank with years. Then, later it was reconstructed by its new owner, and today the castle organises various exhibitions and theatrical performances.

Pazaislis Monastery
The Monastery is one of the most exquisite examples of Italian Baroque architecture in Lithuania. It’s a cultural monument built in the 17th century by Camaldolese monks and lies about 9km east of Kaunas.  It was actually founded by a nobleman of Grand Duchy of Lithuania and Chancellor of Lithuania. The church is decorated and adorned with polished marble but was later on damaged. The monastery church has a painting of Mary Belle and her child, two bells and an oldest church clock tower.

Ninth Fort
The fort was built in the early 1900s on the outskirts of Kaunas. It was completed as part of Kaunas’s final fortress, a huge defensive structure surrounding Kaunas. Basically, it was built on the notion to protect the Russian western borders. And, at the time, the Kaunas was one of the largest and biggest defensive structure in the area. A vital part of any trip to Kaunas is to visit the well in excess of European Jew that was murdered by the Nazis.

Orvidas Garden
On the outskirts of a small town of Salantai, there’s a beautiful garden which became a folk tale to most people. After the death of Stalin, the Soviet Union were still living in fear from their new ruler Khrushchev. It wasn’t easy for the people, especially the religious people and the artist. So, a devout Christian by the name of Vilnius Ordivas felt constantly harassed by this society, but yet from this entire he created something artistic and innovative rebellion in the form of art, which is an open-air sculpture garden on his own.

Kaunas Museum for the Blind
Opened in 2005 with a purpose for the blind people. But, there isn’t much for the blind to see here. The museum is dark and it’s in the catacombs of St. Michael the Archangel church. The museum is now morphed into a place where actually the sighted people can experience the life of the blind. It provides the sighted with the experience of indulging the olfactory, aural and tactile senses.

Žaliakalnis Funicular Railway
This place is among the oldest-operational funicular in the country. To walk uphill, this railroad has been saving people from climbing the 466-foot hill. When it was first built, it had only one cable care, but in a few years there was some development, and the interest in funicular expanded. The original cars were finally replaced with models that were larger and the bottom shelter finally received an actual shelter.

Vilnius Old Town


Vilnius Cathedral Bell Tower
The most historical of Vilnius Attractions is the Vilnius Cathedral Bell Tower. This tower has a very deep history in its roots. It suffered much in the past as it was an important object. It was suffering from many wars and fires as was part of Vilnius’s defensive wall. Its history is marked with black stones and bricks which shows its suffering throughout history. And, by the 16th century, it was turned into a belfry of the Cathedral of Vilnius. The belfry is about 57 m, and visitors can go atop of it and watch the stunning life of the city.

Vilnius Town Hall
The town hall has a long history; it was first mentioned in 1503. It dates back to being built in the 15th century, and the new structure was built in the 18th century. And, the town hall was ordered to be turned into a theatre house by the governor in 1924. Since then, its interior has been a museum.

Presidential Palace
The official residence of the President of Lithuania, this shining white royal residence began life in the fourteenth century as a lot littler structure. Picking up its Classical appearance a lot later, it remained the home of the cream of the city's Catholic ministry until the 1795 Partition when it turned into the residence of Vilnius' tsarist governors. The historical backdrop of the Palace goes back to the sole document composed more than 600 years prior - the decree by Grand Duke Jogaila of 17 February 1387.

Botanical Garden of Vilnius University
This is the biggest botanical garden in Lithuania and has the most extravagant plant collection. It is simply astounding, quiet, unwinding. You can go for going through the day or only a few hours. Having an outing or read a book. There is a different type of flowers and you can see them all year around. There are about 10.000 names of plants. The Botanical Garden is additionally intriguing as a legacy site with a barrow of fourth seventh hundreds of years, the house with structures, park and lakes.

Three Crosses Monument
The historical centre expands on the collections aggregated by the Museum of Antiquities since 1855 and furthermore includes collections devoted to numismatics and internment customs. Some of the collections inside have a fascinating history that dates back to the thirteenth century. On permanent displays are religious and mainstream things featuring the social and ethnographic existence of the country, including diversions of customary properties, apparel, artworks, a killer's sword and many others.

The Museum of Genocide
It was opened in the year 1992. The Museum of Genocide Victims was opened in a similar structure the KGB jail was… so nothing was left to the creative ability. You can see cells, the jail patios, the execution room, restrooms for detainees, and so forth. The historical centre completed a fine work of specifying and sketching out occasions in the jail's history just as the KGB themselves. Among 1944 and the 1960s, in excess of 1000 detainees were shot or wounded in the skull here.

Church of St. Anne
St. Anne's Church was built in between the year 1131 and 1138 to replace a past Byzantine church. It is a standout amongst the loveliest Crusader places of worship in Israel and a favourite of Vilnius Attractions. In 1192, after the fall of the Crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem, Saladin transformed the congregation into the Salahiyye philosophical school for the study of the Qur'an, which is remembered in an inscription over the passage to the church. In the nineteenth century, the compound was given to the French Order of the White Fathers.

Gediminas Castle Tower
A good place to see a better view of the city! It is nice to walk there, or just even sit and relax! Worth to check once in Vilnius! Inside the tower are models of the structure as it appeared in the 14th and 18th centuries, plus other bits and pieces on its history! The views from the top are worth the visit alone. The Gediminas Tower is the significant remainder of the manor some time ago on this site. The block manor was finished in 1409. The legend is that Gediminas, the Grand Duke of Lithuania, stayed outside and had a fantasy of a yelling iron wolf.

Church Heritage Museum
The name of the museum most likely doesn't sound that fascinating, yet really has a decent selection of artifacts. It’s just around the corner from St Anne's Church and included on the Vilnius card. It contains bits of different houses of worship from Vilnius archdiocese and fundamentally from the treasury of Vilnius Cathedral. The historical centre itself isn't huge yet the air there is interesting. Likewise, in spite of the fact that the exhibition hall is about chapel legacy, it is extremely modern with numerous interactive things and one of the most visited Vilnius Tourist Places.

Europos Parkas
Highlighting around 100 works by specialists from nations including Armenia, Japan and Venezuela, the recreation center is spread out more than 55 hectares of moving slopes and forest and incorporates static and artistic art just as Info Tree, Karosas' disintegrating place of worship to propaganda made up of exactly 3,000 TVs with a prostrate Lenin at its centre. Some portion of the museum is dedicated to watermills, an essential bit of innovation in the district's modern history and legacy.

Vilnius Museum of Illusions
The displays are captivating and you will be enthralled to go to a free light show at night. Opened in 2016, the intuitive museum includes about 70 displays exhibiting optical dreams, 3-D craftsmanship, computer-generated reality, and installations that challenge the faculties. The images displayed seem to be a shift and bent, and it looks like people have the ability to walk on walls. You can likewise take photographs inside in light of the fact that it's a piece of the presentation. The best spot to be with companions or family. Really a fun spot for everyone!

Palace of the Grand Dukes of Lithuania
It was the Royal residence of the Grand Dukes of Lithuania. The first structure fell in decay consistently and was demolished toward the start of the nineteenth century, however, was then reconstructed in 2002 and the present, as a section still should be done. The exhibitions inside are decent and there is a pleasant view when climbing one of its towers. While it's solitary symbolic that such a significant number of the nation’s notable ancient rarities has disappeared amid the war or are shown in different nations, it's as yet an imperative sight, retelling an account of a district that has been overlooked in numerous parts of the world.

Dominican Church of the Holy Spirit
An imperative church in the history of Vilnius at the season of conversion from agnosticism to Christianity-3 martyred holy people lie in a coffin safeguarded here. They have connected to the Basilica Church not far away. It’s one of Vilnius favourite Sights to see. The person who had them executed in the long run changed over to Christianity and turned into a priest. Pretty church with exquisite detailing on the main altar; however the principle sight to see is definitely the case that holds the groups of three holy people within it.

Vilna Gaon State Jewish Museum
A magnificent Museum and Gallery in the city of Vilnius!  Be prepared to be astonished by the sentiment of this spot, extremely tranquil and with some awesome fine art. You cannot help to be moved by the terrible disasters of the Holocaust and the pictures and the exhibit on the Children. A green wooden house has a display to celebrate the Holocaust in Lithuania. The presentation tells the historical backdrop of the destruction of Lithuanian Jews during World War II (1941– 1945).

Walking Path by the Neris River
Just a few km away from Old town, this park is along the River Neris in Vilnius. It has numerous hiking trails with green oasis around it and a botanical garden to enjoy. There are also some outdoor activities, entertainment including summer concerts and others. This is among the best sightseeing in Vilnius and a great park to walk, hike and enjoy the beauty of nature. It’s a bit of the countryside to get away from an exhausting day. This is one of the few places to visit in Vilnius.

Hales Market
This is a market is a perfect place to explore the traditional food of the country. It’s beautifully restored with a glass roof that has visitors and locals flowing in and out of the market. You can find food, vegetables and a nice range of locally produced honey that you can try before you even buy out. There are also a few small buffet style places to eat and try the local food that’s directly purchased from this market.

Bernardinai Garden
It’s located just at the heart of the city, and a favourite Vilnius Tourist Attraction. The garden features monastic expositions, children’s playground, pond, musical fountain. The whole garden is filled with plants of many types and they are a very special part of the park. It’s these plants that make the garden so beautiful and tell a story of its history. It was a monastery garden built by the monks when they were invited by the Grand Duke.
Latvia

Cat House
The Cat House is a building situated at 10 Meistaru iela in the old town of Riga the capital of Latvia. It was built in 1909 according to the blueprint of architect Friedrich Scheffel. The building is styled as medieval architecture with some elements of Art Nouveau

Riga Town Hall Square
During World War II, the town hall was completely destroyed along with its historical buildings. But, it’s been completely re-built and the guest is welcome to see the newly constructed Town hall and other buildings. It was a tradition to lit the Christmas tree at the town hall, and thus memorial planks can be seen here where new Christmas trees are decorated everywhere. Everything is worth seeing in the town hall and its easy access by foot. Sitting by the town hall can give a better look of all the beautiful building surrounding the place.

The Ethnographic Open-Air Museum of Latvia
The Ethnographic Open-Air Museum of Latvia is one of the oldest open-air museums in Europe. It is located on the lightly wooded banks of Lake Jugla, and about 30 minutes from Riga. The museum house all antique and rare items as it began its collection before the war, and still many of its items are still in very good condition. All four of Latvia's provinces are displayed in the building along with 118 historical buildings. The museum offers the historical region of the different culture of the people of Latvia, the traditional Latvian farmsteads, dwelling houses, historical churches and many others

Statue of Roland


Freedom Monument
The Freedom Monument is a memorial located in Riga Latvia honouring soldiers killed during the Latvian War of Independence. It is considered an important symbol of the freedom independence and sovereignty of Latvia. Unveiled in 1935 the 42-metre high monument of granite travertine and copper often serves as the focal point of public gatherings and official ceremonie

Old City Riga (Vecriga)
Old City Riga (Vecriga) is the historical center and a neighborhood of Riga Latvia located in the Central District on the east side of the Daugava River. Vecrga is famous for its old churches and cathedrals such as Riga Cathedral and St. Peters Church. In the early 1990s Vecrgas streets were closed to traffic and only residents of the area and the local delivery vehicles were allowed within Vecrgas limits with special permits. Vecrga is part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site listed as the Historic Centre of Riga which also includes most of the surrounding Central district.

Riga Central Market
Riga Central Market is Europes largest market and bazaar in Riga Latvia. It is one of the most notable structures from the 20th century in Latvia and has been included in the UNESCO World Heritage Site list together with Old Riga in 1998. It was planned from 1922 and built from 1924 to 1930. The main structures of the market are five pavilions constructed by reusing old German Zeppelin hangars and incorporating Neoclassicism and Art Deco styles. The market is 72300 square meters wide with more than 3000 trade stands.

House of the Black Heads
The House of the Blackheads is a building situated in the old town of Riga Latvia. The original building was erected during the first third of the 14th century for the Brotherhood of Blackheads a guild for unmarried merchants shipowners and foreigners in Riga. Major works were done in the early 17th century adding most of the Mannerist ornamentation. The sculptures were made in the workshop of August Volz. Additionally it is the site of the first decorated Christmas tree which was erected in 1510.

Riga Cathedral
Riga Cathedral formally The Cathedral Church of Saint Mary is the Evangelical Lutheran cathedral in Riga Latvia. It is the seat of the Archbishop of Riga. The cathedral is one of the most recognizable landmarks in Latvia and is featured in or the subject of paintings photographs and television travelogues.

Alberta Iela
Albert Street is a street in central Riga known for its Art Nouveau buildings. It was built in 1901 and named after Bishop Albert who founded Riga in 1201. Many of the apartment buildings along the street were designed by the architect Mikhail Eisenstein who was particularly active in Riga at the beginning of the twentieth century. His creativity is reflected through the various atypical decorative buildings along Albert street. The architectural style makes use of structural and decorative elements of romantic nationalism common to northern Europe at the time. Konstantns Pkns and Eiens Laube a teacher and his pupil respectively were prominent in building design on the street at the same time. Other authors of buildings of Alberta iela include Baltic and Baltic German architects Paul Mandelstamm Hermann Hilbig and Heinrich Scheel.

The Corner House
The Corner House is a historic building in the city center of Riga Latvia. It was known as the headquarters of the Soviet KGB in Latvia from 1940 to 1941 and from 1944 to 1991. The official address is 61 Brvbas iela. Designed by architect Aleksandrs Vanags the construction of the house was started in 1910 and was built in 1912 as apartments and shops. It housed the music school of the Imperial Russian Society of Music a library and a bookstore sweets and fruit dairy products flower shops and a pharmacy of the Ministry of National Welfare. During the Latvian War of Independence the Latvian Revolutionary War Committee used the building briefly in 1919. In 1920 the new government of independent Latvia took over the building for government use including the Ministry of the Interior and other offices.

Riga Zoo
Riga Zoo is a city-owned zoo in Riga Latvia. It is located in the Mezaparks neighborhood next to the Mezaparks park on the western bank of ezers lake. Riga Zoo houses around 4000 animals of nearly 500 species and is visited by 250-300000 visitors annually. The zoo offers various sponsorship options and states that it will accept any kind of sponsorship except if it contradicts the goals of the zoo - humane handling of animals no trading or hunting of wild animals - or promotes addiction-forming products. One can become an honorary guardian of an animal by donating 10 Latvian lats or more by becoming a guardian a person or company receives a plaque inscribed with their name or logo placed next to the funded animal. Sponsors who have donated more than 500 lats also receive a plaque in a stand near the central entrance of the zoo. If many sponsors have contributed to the building of an animal house a stand listing all sponsors may be placed at the animal house in question. Sponsors who have contributed more than 50% of funding for an animal house can also name the building. Riga Zoo enacts several scientific research and wildlife conservation projects.

Riga Central Station
Riga Central Station is the main railway station in Riga Latvia. It is known as the main point of Riga due to its central location and most forms of public transport stop in this area. Part of the building is a shopping center.

Riga
It's one of the major cities in the Baltic. The place blends in so well with its old tradition and modern lifestyle. The city is full of surprises on every road and corner as there's so much that meets the eye. A lot of footprints has been left on this city which makes it European's most exciting metropolis. The Old town is mingled with Gothic spires, cobblestones and breathtaking river views. It offers an adventure for taste buds with its great value bistros and cafes. The city is big enough to keep you busy for days with day trips to see Riga Attraction and Latvian Attraction.

Jurmala
If sandy beaches, architecture, food, pine trees are one's ideal part of the holiday. Then, this magnificent playground is a resort like no other place in Europe. It's just 30 minutes away from Riga and has been a beloved seaside destination for tourist over many years. The place was originally a cluster of fishing villages, and it looks like the old folks have left a traditional architectural blend to few contemporary to the place. To add more beauty to this enchanting city, nature captures the place with its fresh air, pendent pine trees and a clean environment to give the tourist a state of tranquility

Gauja National Park & Zvartes Rock
The Gauja National Park is one of the first national parks in Latvia. The park features different forms of landforms, sandstone, natural springs, mesmerising views, biological diversity, historical and cultural monuments. There are many caves to explore in every corner of the park, and out of all the exploration, the Zvartes Rock is a must see sight! The rock is the most popular sandstone rock named after a plantation which was torn down after WWII. It has a visitor centre which is an excellent place for recreation and leisure activities. There are quite a few good picnic areas to be enjoyed by the whole family or friends

Cesis Castle
The history of Cesis can be traced back to 800 years ago as its interlinked with Cesis Castle around the 13th century. It is so well preserved that its beauty and grace stand out from any other castle of the period. The castle is appealing to look at the day and night time, especially when one climbs to the top tower with a candle in their hand. One can enjoy the night view of the old town, castle parks and ruins of the castle. That's up against the castle, but as one descends down the castle, there's a good look one gets to see at the castle prison

Sigulda
Sigulda gives one a glimpse into the life of a medieval Europe. Its landscapes have inspired many poets, painters and lovers and many still continue to embrace its beauty. The stunning scenery and history are a treat for the eyes in all seasons especially the autumn time. The forested valley of Sigulda is imbued in myths and legends. There are a number of attractions to visit and to name a few the Old Sigulda Castle, Tarzan's Adventure Park, The Aerodium and many others. From the feeling of poetic ruins of the castles up to get a feel of adrenaline heaven, or even discover Latvian spirituality, one can enjoy a memorable journey!

Jelgava
Jelgava is called the Jewel of Zemgale. The hospitable city is one of the oldest cities in Latvia. It is only 40 km away from Riga who is excellent at welcoming and receiving guests. It's also one of Latvia tourist spots. There's a cultural enrichment with the growing years and is willing to show off its gems to the world. It is rich in historical, cultural, architectural, natural monuments as well as contemporary and recreational facilities. For many centuries, it has been an educational, economic, and cultural centre of Zemgale. The culture and art industry is found at every corner of the street, but it also has active tourism on hikes, tours, adventure activities

Daugavpils
As the city is located on the river bank of Daugava, therefore it derived its name. The town is only 232 km away from Riga. It is separated by the river and is surrounded by beautiful landscape and woods.  With so many footprints left in the country, the town has transformed from antiquity to modernity. The history has left its mark in the diversified architecture and culture of the place. Tourist flock to see the exquisite art centres, museums, the fortress along with an adventurous journey to a zoo, event and other activities

Ventspils
The Latvian city port is a bustling city of beaches, public art and maritime heritage. It is the city's oldest port carrying an aroma of the sea all over town and one of the best of Latvia tourist places. There are interactive visitor shows and tours much in tune with today. Ventspils' tourism has progressed in leaps and bounds making this industrial town a refined soul. There are interesting monuments to visit as the city is smeared with the expression of the Cow Parades. The city has also devoted heavily on art bringing colour and joy to the streets of the town.

Rundale Palace and Museum
The Rundale Palace and Museum was built for the Dukes of Courland by Italian painters and Berlin sculptors. It is set in the south of Latvia, Pilsrundāle, 12 km west of Bauska. The interior decorations of the palace were inscribed between the years 1765-1768. The Palace has the Great Gallery, the White Hall, Gilt Hall which are all open to the public. The Rundale Palace Museum houses the history of Latvia and displayed though arranged exhibitions, collections and publications. It also has a French-style park with fountains, rose garden, green theatre and parterres that manifest the triumph of art over nature

Kemeri National Park
Kemeri National Park is the third largest national park in the country occupied mostly by mires and forest. The park is known for its Kemeri bog, biological diversity, therapeutic mud and mineral waters. It is home to fens, moss and transitional bogs due to its wetlands. One can go on a walk along nature, see the bogs, cycle along the Green Dune or even spend birdwatch at the Meadows and Lakes. In the middle of the forest, the meadows are seen with Polski horses and Heck cows grazing in the greens. The Park also has its own resort along with a forest house which is just 2 km away from Kameri.

Kuldiga
A town set in the past with the sun still high in the sky. The sleepy and romantic town is wandered more by curious tourists for its architect, waterfall and cobblestones. It's one of the Riga tourist places because the aura of the people is full of passion and grace in their hearts. One can explore the charming streets and the colourful little houses of the local people. The town is alive with traditional markets on handlooms with the craft of weaving. The place even has a school that teaches the craft of weaving and thus their traditional clothes and culture is being kept alive

Liepaja
The port city is set on Latvia's coast on the Baltic Sea. It's a pristine town with an artistic soul offering good fresh local seafood on every menu. The sea-run all over the place and has its individual streak at the Blue Flag Beach. Even if it’s a port, there's elegance reflected in its architecture, timber houses, grand old warehouses up to its luxury hotels. The art style Art Nouveau has a strong influence on many of its architectural buildings. The town also hosts various festivals, events throughout the year attracting many visitors to see the culture

Cape Kolka
The cape is enchantingly desolate and hauntingly beautiful. It is surrounded by the Irbe Strait on the shores of Latvia. The memory captures the beauty of this place during the migration season when thousands of birds fly over the cape. It's a heavenly sight that one would ever get to experience. Its paradise for beach lovers.

Turaida Museum Reserve
The name Turaida means 'God's Garden' is a heavenly place with western and southern towers. There are many castles, church, garden, hills and ancillary building that are situated in the area of the museum. The museum reserve is rich with its architectural, historical, archaeological and artistic monuments that say a story about the historical events that happen over thousands of years. While at the museum reserve, one can visit the Turaida stone castle, Turaida church, Turaida memorial etc. Visitors also take part in the summer solstice, one of the annual festivals of Latvia at the Folk song Hill which takes place on 21 June every year

Latgale
The land of blue lakes as it has the largest number of lakes that are congregated in the area between Kraslava, Angola and Ezernieki. Latgale is the only place that speaks its own language with Catholicism being a dominant religion. The nature trails have been created along the enthralling banks that lead visitors to many of the Latvian castles. Under the hill of Latgale, there's an abundance of materials for craftsmen and artists. And, Latgale is traditionally known for its pottery works such as pots, jugs, woollen stuff, baskets, boxes created by the artistic craftsmen and artist of Latvia.

Razna National Park & Razna Lake
Razna National Park was created for protecting the natural values of Razna Lake and its surrounding areas. There are many lakes around the park, but one of the most important lakes in this area is Razna Lake. It is the second largest lake in Latvia and has facilitated recreational areas. As the lake has sandy beaches and its rich with fishes, it is also known as the Latgale Sea. Fishing is a popular activity here, and it’s a special interest that people even fish under ice in winter. The amazing landscape, historical, religious and cultural traditions are the special charm of the region

Mezotne Palace
For lovers of classicism art and architecture, there's no better example than the Mezotne Palace! Its landscape is carefully planned in harmony with the palace by boasting the beautiful park, the auxiliary buildings and the awestruck surroundings over the river. The beauty of the palace is made in an English style landscape park including a summer park, winter park and a parade yard. The place is always more enchanting to see from above in a hot air balloon, it is like scanning the whole palace in real. The palace is also a home for hotels, bars, restaurants, pub and they undertake many other services as well.

Aluksne
The English Neogothic castle was built from 1859-1863 directed by Alexander von Vietinghoff. Located in the northeast of Latvia near the borders of Russia and Estonia. Behind the castle, there was an ice cellar and around the cellar, and to its left corner, there's a coat of arms of Alexander's family. When he moved to Germany, he took all of the artwork and parts of the interiors with him. The castle is now a museum known by the name, Aluksne museum and nature museum. The museum has various exhibitions and expositions such as sculptures, Leo Kokle story, Marienburg Fortress and many others.

Bauska Castle
Bauska is a town in the southern region of Latvia situated at the conjunction of the shallow rivers Memele and Musa. The castle consists of two sections: Livonian Order Castle, it is built in the 15th century and it is one of the oldest. The other is the residence of the Dukes of Courland, it was a more recent part of the rag built in the 16th century. There's a lot to explore in the castle interiors and its historical exhibits. Visitors can discover the collection of the castle' cannons, the Great tower or even go on a themed excursion or participate in activities and programs hosted in the museum

Courland
Courland is a historically distinct area of west and southwest Latvia bounded by the Baltic Sea and the Dvina River. There were major inhabitants of the Jews living here in the early 20th century, and they played an important role in the creation of wealth and the rich cultural life of the area. Most of the architecture was done by the Germans in most cities and towns. As of now, it is sparsely populated with strong ethnic Latvian population. While in Courland, there are many places to visit, such as the Cape Kolka, Šlokenbeka Castle, Town of Talsi, Venta waterfall, Town of Ventspils, Venta rapid, Dundaga castle and many others.

Riga Old Town
Riga's Old Town is filled with charming cafes, medieval churches and mesmerising art and culture of Latvia. It's in the heart of the city and has become one of the top destinations for tourists. Its a popular entertainment district with an abundance of architectural gems and cobblestone streets. This place gives tourists a vice to feel and is relaxed, entertained at the crafts houses, John's courtyard, churches of the old town, art galleries, museums, music clubs and many others! From artistic architecture, sacral structures to world-class museums, there are many things to see and do in this UNESCO World Heritage site.

St. Peter Church
St Peter’s Church in Riga’s tallest church. The church boasts a breathtaking view of the modern part of the old town, Bay, river and the port. The tall Gothic tower was built in the Baroque style, with the big domes and designs. The tower clock and bells had just one hand showing hours. At the church, one can enjoy art exhibitions, concerts, the art of ancient builders, the history of the church on stands and screens. See the original statue and get to know the skill of the ancient builders. Examine the interior designs of the wooden epitaphs, altar and the renovated stone works.

Riga Dome Cathedral or Saint Mary’s Dome Cathedral
The cathedral is the centre place for the Archbishop of the Church as its one of the oldest sacred buildings in Latvia. In the year 1211, only the cathedral was laid, but later on, a monastery and cathedral school were built next to it. It's one of the tallest towers of the time with 140 meters in height. The building has several combine features of early Gothic, Romanesque, art nouveau and baroque styles. There is a museum of the history of Riga, cloister and concert halls

Riga Motor Museum
The museum houses the largest and wide array of antique motor vehicles in the Baltic. There is an exhibition at the museum that shows the story created for antique vehicles, famous people and the most historical events that happen in the automotive world. There are innumerable things to see at the museum which will draw the attention of any visitor. Visit the museum and see a replica of the car Benz Patent Motorwagen, Kremlin collection or the Soviet cars, a collection of specialized and military machinery. There is a noteworthy collection of racing cars as well as recording breaking motors to see at the museum!

Latvian National Theatre Riga
The Latvian National Theatre Riga is one of the main and oldest theatres in Riga. It also has strong historical importance as Latvian's independence was first proclaimed at this place. Located at the centre of Riga, and received its name upon the restoration of its independence later on. The building is a combination of style, elements of Art Nouveau and Baroque which was very popular in Riga at that time. The great hall can accommodate 850 people and 100 people at the Actor's hall. The theatre display shows for spectators in accordance with its main task.

Latvian National Opera and Ballet
The Latvian National Opera and Ballet is the national opera of Latvia. Visitors to this opera can expect to see world-class classic opera, modern opera, children's opera-ballet performances and Latvian's original productions. More than anything else, the fan's are more excited to see their Latvian opera stars returning home and performing it at their national opera. There's a tour in the opera building which shows visitors the 19th-century architecture, vibrant history etc. The opera wants to maintain its classical and romantic opera, but they are also open to a contemporary form of performances.

Latvian National Museum of Art
The museum has more than 52,000 works of art by Baltic and Russian artist and sculptors. It is one of the largest art museums in Latvia and offers temporary exhibitions. Visitors can take interesting educational programmes. There are 19-20th-century Latvian art exhibitions which include the masterpieces of Janis Rozentals, Purvitis and Valters. Recently, there's a new exhibit located underground of the museum offering temporary exhibitions only. The roof of the museum always offers a surprise for the visitors as it is an eagle point to see the beauty of Riga.

Taka Spa
It’s a hidden gem located in Riga. The moment one steps into this place, there's nothing more to expect, the only relaxation kicks in immediately. On the second floor, the couple treatment is happening which is in a much bigger room, with curtains around the massage beds preparing customers for the treatment in private. It is delightfully cosy with a constant smell of wood and faint aromatic oils that brings a feeling of paradise. And since it is directly under the roof, there is a large window that lights up the room. There are several treatments here, from aroma oil to hot stone massages.

Riga’s Art Nouveau Center
The Rigas Art Nouveau Center is the only place that value and pays its respects of the historical heritage of Art Nouveau. It offers one into discovering the authentic environment of the movement and savouring it in an early 20th-century apartment in Riga. Its interiors were created in 1903 so that visitors could see the beauty of Art Nouveau at its fullest from home planning right up to the structure of its doors and windows. One of the central room is the drawing room where it is decorated with flowery patterns, lavish lounge. Visitors can also visit the other room and see the structure and style of Art Nouveau's influence at the time.

Nativity of Christ Cathedral
Nativity of Christ Cathedral is the oldest and largest Orthodox Church in Riga which has withstood time and the Soviet era. It was a planetarium and restaurant, but it's restored its place to being a sacred building where religious ceremonies are being performed on a regular basis. The cathedral is a symbol of stability which can be visited by anyone in need of peace and sanctuary. The construction took place in the year 1876, and its official opening was in 1884. The interior of the cathedral is rich and of high artistic value. It has an outstanding collection of antique and valuable icons painted by the famous Russian Painter Vasily Vereshchagin.

Riga’s Central Market
One of Europe's largest market and notable structures from the 20th century. Taking a stroll along the market is pretty exciting for visitors from testing pickled cucumber to trying freshly smoked eel. It remains to be in the heart of Riga and gives a diverse shopping experience, lively conversation, personal touch, storytelling with the vendors. There's no other Attraction in Riga Sights like this as it is unique not only with its stalls and items but its pavilion, old warehouses which have been turned into entertainment hubs.

Laima Clock
The Laima Clock is located in the centre of Riga between old town and the commercial centre. It’s a traditional meeting spot for the people of this place and there are always people standing around this clock. It was first installed in the 14th century and was seen as a sign of prosperity. The main purpose of the clock was to remind people of the time they had to go to work and be on time. Laima was named in 1936 which means happiness in Latvia. The clock is not just of historical importance but it’s also a popular sovereign in Riga. To be in Riga, and not meet someone at the Laima clock would not be worth a trip or a journey.

National Library of Latvia
It is monumental, modern, beautiful and perfectly functional. This is not just a library or scientific institution but hosts a wide variety of cultural and educational events. The interior design is classic with breathtaking elements of style. One can take a nice walk across the Akmens Bridge as it is located right in the centre. As for the atrium, it is really impressive and a visitor card is available at the counter for one to explore the whole library. The 7th floor of the building offers a beautiful view, although the windows can't be opened. There is also a viewing platform on the 11/12th floor, and it is recommended to only go with a guide.
Finland
When travelling in Finland, put on the rubber boots and head to the woods to slow down, just like the Finns do to embrace the calmer side of life. No wonder why Finland is consecutively labelled as the ‘happiest country in the world’ by the UN. A hidden gem tucked into the North of Europe, Finland offers what most people around the world are looking for - peace, soothing sights and sounds of nature, the beauty of the wild, culinary excellence, security and authenticity. Throw in some winter delight along with some amazingly awesome summers and you've got one cool country to pin to the top of your bucket list. Despite being relatively undiscovered by the world, there are many intriguing Places to visit in Finland that have easily gotten the deserving attention of travellers. Whether you want to peep out of your glass igloos to witness the extraordinary Northern Lights, enjoy city tours in Savonlinna and Helsinki, get super close to nature in Lakeland, take pleasure in a traditional Finnish Sauna or visit Santa’s imaginative world at Lapland, the Finland Attractions are nothing less than magical wonders. Thriving and shining as one of the top bucket list destinations in the world, Finland is stocked with vibrant cities that have helped enormously in backing up its tourism sector. But a major chunk of acknowledgement goes to its capital city Helsinki which is a surprising package of unique travel experiences. While the rhythm of the city is quite laid-back, there are several Best Places to visit in Helsinki that cater to the preferences of history and art fanatics, nature and food lovers and those wanting to loosen themselves in a public sauna. With a list of Helsinki Attractions that seems endless, it is tough to pick just a few. Read on to discover the worth-visiting Helsinki Tourist Places and Spots while you plan on making your overall journey to the country absolutely fun-tastic! Loving Finland already and can’t wait to get there? Plan your trip with our list of Top Finland Tourist Attractions and bookmark the signature travel experiences.
Kiasma Nykytaiteen museo
Kiasma is a contemporary art museum located on Mannerheimintie in Helsinki Finland.

Havis Amanda
Havis Amanda is a fountain and a statue in Helsinki Finland by the sculptor Ville Vallgren.

Helsinki Cathedral
Helsinki Cathedral is the Finnish Evangelical Lutheran cathedral of the Diocese of Helsinki located in the neighborhood of Kruununhaka in the centre of Helsinki Finland at the Senate Square. The church was originally built from 18301852 as a tribute to the Grand Duke of Finland Tsar Nicholas I of Russia. It was also known as St Nicholas Church until the independence of Finland

Orthodox Church Porvoo


Temppeliaukio Church
Temppeliaukio Church is a Lutheran church in the Tl neighborhood of Helsinki. The church was designed by architects and brothers Timo and Tuomo Suomalainen and opened in 1969. Built directly into solid rock it is also known as the Church of the Rock and Rock Church.

Sibelius Monument
The Sibelius Monument by Eila Hiltunen is dedicated to the Finnish composer Jean Sibelius. The monument is located at the Sibelius Park in the district of Tl in Helsinki the capital city of Finland.

Sea Fortress Suomenlinna
Suomenlinna is an 18th-century sea fortress and nature area with centuries-old artillery and defensive walls spread across 6 linked islands. Walking trails cross parkland between popular sights like the Kings Gate drawbridge and Suomenlinna Museum which recounts military and maritime history. Submarine Vesikko lets visitors explore a restored 1930s vessel. Theres also a brewery and several waterside restaurants.

Esplanadi
Esplanadi colloquially known as Espa is an esplanade and urban park in downtown Helsinki Finland situated between the Erottaja square and the Market Square. It is bordered on its northern and southern sides by the Pohjoisesplanadi and Etelesplanadi streets respectively. Aleksanterinkatu runs parallel to Esplanadi.

Santa Claus Holiday Village
All your childhood fantasies about Christmas are going to come true when you will meet the real Santa Claus in a village called Rovaniemi. This place in Lapland is the only place in the world where one can meet real Santa Claus at any time of the year. If one is unable to meet him then just drop a postcard at Santa’s office. Despite being the country with the highest standards of living, Finnish families have been following their traditions flawlessly. As compared to other Christian countries, Christmas in Finland is about following traditions that have been passed over generations. On the eve of Christmas, Santa Claus comes on his sleigh to visit all well-behaved Finnish children.

Arktikum Science Museum
Arktikum is a museum and science centre in Rovaniemi Finland. The building is also a popular culture destination and venue for meetings and conferences and has a cafe and library to serve the customers. Two separate exhibitions operate at Arktikum the Arctic Center and the Provincial Museum of Lapland.

Helsinki Senate Square
The Senate Square presents Carl Ludvig Engels architecture as a unique allegory of political religious scientific and commercial powers in the centre of Helsinki Finland.

Uspenski Cathedral
Uspenski Cathedral is an Eastern Orthodox cathedral in Helsinki Finland and main cathedral of the Orthodox Church of Finland dedicated to the Dormition of the Theotokos. Its name comes from the Old Church Slavonic word uspenie which denotes the Dormition.

Stundars Museum
Come and experience life as it may have been at the turn of the 20th century in the countryside in Ostrobothnia. Stundars open air museum consists of seventy buildnings that have all been relocated from villages in Korsholm and the Vaasa region. There is a country shop a village school and a farmhouse as wess as many artisans workshops and crofters cottages.

Market Square Oulu
The Oulu Market Square is the main market square of the city of Oulu Finland. The market square is located in the city centre in the Pokkinen district on the waterfront of the Oulujoki river. The Rotuaari pedestrian zone starts from the square behind th

RIISA  Orthodox Church Museum of Finland
RIISA  Orthodox Church Museum of Finland is a museum located in the city of Kuopio which specializes in the research preservation and archiving of the visual and tangible cultural heritage of the Finnish Orthodox Church.

Savonlinna Market Square


Old Market Hall


Aurora Borealis Observatory


Santa Park
SantaPark is a Christmas theme park and visitor attraction in Rovaniemi in the Lapland region of Finland. SantaPark was opened 28 November 1998.

Arctic Circle Snowmobile Park
Arctic Circle Snowmobile Park Oy is a family-company based in Rovaniemi in Finnish Lapland. The firm was established in 1999. We organize customized program services for individuals especially for families and small groups. In winter season our office located in Santa Claus Village at the Arctic Circle is open daily from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. for non-stop snowmobile safaris and mini-

Rovaniemi Church


Kamppi Chapel of Silence


Santa Claus Office
Santa Claus Office is the place to meet Santa Claus himself in Rovaniemi. Have a chat with him and have your photo taken with him. Open every day free of charge

Arctic Lifestyle
Arctic Lifestyle is a safari house and program service company based in Rovaniemi Finland. We aim to provide unforgettable experiences to our customers through the spell of Lappish nature first class equipment and experienced staff. Our snowmobiles are the newest sport models on the market and the rest of our equipment is of similar standard. We provide services y

Seurasaari
Seurasaari is an island and a district in Helsinki Finland known mostly as the location of the Seurasaari Open-Air Museum which consists of old mainly wooden buildings transplanted from elsewhere in Finland and placed in the dense forest landscape of the island.

Snow Village
Imaginative lodging in rooms & suites made of ice or eclectic cabins with private hot tubs.

Ateneum
Ateneum is an art museum in Helsinki Finland and one of the three museums forming the Finnish National Gallery. It is located in the centre of Helsinki on the south side of Rautatientori square close to Helsinki Central railway station. It has the biggesAteneum is an art museum in Helsinki Finland and one of the three museums forming the Finnish National Gallery. It is located in the centre of Helsinki on the south side of Rautatientori square close to Helsinki Central railway station. It has the biggest collections of classical art in Finland. Before 1991 the Ateneum building also housed the Finnish Academy of Fine Arts and University of Art and Design Helsinki.

National Museum of Finland
The National Museum of Finland presents Finnish history from the Stone Age to the present day through objects and cultural history. The Finnish National Romantic style building is located in central Helsinki and is a part of the Finnish Heritage Agency under the Ministry of Culture and Education.

Helsinki City Museum
Helsinki City Museum is a museum in Helsinki that documents and displays the history of Helsinki the capital of Finland. Its mission is to record and uphold Helsinkis spiritual material and architectural heritage. The museum features personal memories and everyday life of the citys residents. It also acts as the regional museum for central Uusimaa with a mission to promote and steer

Arctic Circle Information
We are the Tourist Information point in Santa Claus Village. Here you can have useful information you can booked a guide for your stay in Rovaniemi we have also a souvenir shop and the one and only original certificate of Crossing the Arctic Circle.

Elfs Farm Yard
You can meet our kind and friendly domestic animals as reindeer sheep goat rabbits hens and rooster. Cross the Arctic Circle with traditional Lappish wooden skis all needed equipments are provided at Yard. Snow sliding and playground area. Bonfirebbq-make your own picnic.

Lordis Square
The Lordis Square is a square in central Rovaniemi Finland. Next to the square are located a shopping centre called Sampokeskus and a small boulevard. The square is especially popular in summer as a place to host various events.

SantaPark
SantaPark is a Christmas theme park and visitor attraction in Rovaniemi in the Lapland region of Finland.

Uspenski Cathedral
Uspenski Cathedral is an Eastern Orthodox cathedral in Helsinki Finland and the main cathedral of the Orthodox Church of Finland dedicated to the Dormition of the Theotokos. Its name comes from the Old Church Slavonic word uspenie which denotes Dormition.

Huskypoint


Helsinki Olympic Stadium
The Helsinki Olympic Stadium located in the Tl district about 2.3 kilometers from the center of the Finnish capital Helsinki is the largest stadium in the country nowadays mainly used for hosting sports events and big concerts. The stadium is best known for being the center of activities in the 1952 Summer Olympics. During those games it hosted athletics equestrian show jumping and the football finals.

Fagervik Church


Market Square Helsinki
The Market Square is a central square in Helsinki Finland. It is located in central Helsinki at the eastern end of Esplanadi and bordering the Baltic Sea to the south and Katajanokka to the east. HSL maintains a year-round ferry link from Market Square to Suomenlinna. In the summer there are also private companies providing ferry cruises to Suomenlinna and other nearby islands. The Presidential Palace Helsinki City Hall Swedish Embassy and the Stora Enso Headquarters building are all located adjacent to Market Square.

Helsingin KaupunginmuseoHelsinki City Museum
Helsinki City Museum is a museum in Helsinki that documents and displays the history of Helsinki the capital of Finland.

Serena Water Park
Serena Waterpark is a water park located along the Vihdintie road in the Lahnus district of Espoo Finland. It was opened after extensive excavation and construction work in 1989. Serena is the largest indoor water park in the Nordic countries and it is also one of the most popular travel destinations in Southern Finland with more than 200000 people visiting the water park every year. The water park features a variety of water slides patios hot tubs childrens pools and sparkling rapids and the sauna departments are located in a part of the water park excavated inside the rock. There are also restaurants and cafs in the area. The Serena Ski Center is open in winter. There are six cottages for rent all year round.

Kaivopuisto
Kaivopuisto nicknamed Kaivari in Finnish or Brunsan in Swedish is one of the oldest and best-known parks in central Helsinki Finland and also a neighborhood of about 500 inhabitants where the park is located. Kaivopuisto offers several hectares of parks both on flat ground and on cliffs. The park also includes traces of stone fortifications built in the 18th century. Every summer thousands of Helsinkians come to Kaivopuisto to sunbathe have picnics or hold sports. The largest hill in the park is a favored slope for tobogganing during the winter.

Sinebrychoff Art Museum
The Sinebrychoff Art Museum is an art museum located in Bulevardi in Helsinki Finland. The museum exhibits the old European art collections of the Finnish National Gallery. In addition half of the museum acts as a historic house museum displaying the 19th-century estate of the Sinebrychoff family.

BearhillHusky
A family owned and operated husky kennel dedicated to providing excellent dog-care and tours in the Rovaniemi area. Join us for a quick ride at Santa Village or a more adventurous tour at our main kennel. We take our dogs welfare seriously and strive to provide our guest with a responsible and ethical sled-dog experienced swell as great value for money. Love knowledge and respect i

Northern Lights
Northern Lights can be best spotted in Finnish Lapland, especially during winters. Widely known as Aurora Borealis, this natural light show can only be spotted in the clear sky. Unlike other countries, Finland has ample open spaces and national parks with enough darkness for viewing northern lights. Since the Finnish northern lights are supposed to be the best, the country offers plenty of resorts and hotels for accommodation and tour operators who specialize in spotting Aurorae. However, Northern Finland is just not about northern lights but there are many tempting activities to do like snowmobile tour, reindeer safari, churches, museums and much more.

Suomenlinna Fortress
Suomenlinna Fortress of Finland or Sea Fortress is a world heritage site listed by UNESCO as a unique monument of military architecture. It is one of its kind in the history of Finland as it has served three realms in its past: Sweden, Russia, and Finland. The inception of the fortress started back in the mid 18th century when Finland was still part of Sweden. Today, the fortress is amongst the most popular sights in Finland and home to 800 residents. It can be reached by taking a short ferry ride from Helsinki. With numerous cafes, restaurants, and museums, this place is perfect for a quick escape from bustling city life to a peaceful park-like environment.

Helsinki Churches
In Finland, traditions have lived strong for centuries. Sami, the oldest civilization of the country believed that there’s a soul in everything. For many years, people from the pagan reindeer herds worshipped god by chanting and drumming.The Four Famous Churches of Helsinki depicts the evolution of Finland from Swedish territory to Russian outpost, to an independent nation. Starting with Lutheran Cathedral that was commissioned by Russian Czar. It appears as a neoclassical cathedral with green domes. The churchgoers here pay homage to Finland's first overlords, the Swedes. Inside the church, the walls depict biblical stories from last supper and ascension. Next is Temppeliaukio Church which is carved from a massive slab of granite with a pile of boulders holding up the ceiling made of 22 Km of copper stripping. It is a popular acoustic hall

Turku Castle
A granite stone building that has survived for more than 700 years is what is known as Turku Castle. Located near the banks of Aura river, this medieval building is one of the oldest building still in use in Finland. During its history till today, Turku Castle has served as a defensive bastion, an administrative court, a prison, a storehouse, and a barracks. The walls of the castle have witnessed major events in history. The periodic furniture, costumes, and treasures in the museum reflects the time from the past. With a cathedral inside the castle, the building has been standing still since the 1280s.

Lake Saimaa and Savonlinna
Located in the eastern part of Finland, Lake Saimaa is the fourth largest freshwater lake in Europe spread in an area of 4,400 square kilometers. This lake was formed by glacial melting at the end of ice age. The lake is home for numerous islands. This beautiful Finnish district attracts a lot of tourist throughout the year.

Savonlinna is situated in the southeastern part of Europe in the lap of Lake Saimaa. This lively city is built on islands and possesses incredible natural beauty of Finland Lakeland. The place is a must-visit for tourists as the city offers many activities like snowshoeing, skiing, boating, kayak and much more. The Savonlinna Opera Festival is a worldwide cultural event and now with its stage as Olavinlinna Castle, it has become a historic attraction too.

Porvoo
With an easy reach from Helsinki there lies a small charming city called Porvoo. The city is more than 800 years old and considered as the second oldest city in Finland. The city has been a source of inspiration for many Finnish artists. A day trip from Helsinki or steamboat in summers is all you need to take to reach this serene city. Not exactly located in the coastal area, the city is still connected to the Gulf of Finland via the Porvoo river. The Porvoo river flows down across the city touching most popular the red shore houses. These houses were originally painted red in honor of the arrival of the king of Sweden. Over the years, the city has been an important center of trade.

Olavinlinna Castle
Located in northernmost Finland this castle is situated in Savonlinna. The building of the castle was started in 15th century by a Danish-born founder of the castle, knight Erik Axelsson Tott. He decided to build fortifying walls to protect the Savo region from Russians. Situated on a small island of lake Saimaa the castle has been part of Great Nordic War (1700-1721), Russo-Swedish War (1741-1743). However, the castle lost its importance after the Finnish War (1808-1809), when Finland became an autonomous part of Russia. Then after, the castle became a tourist attraction and is serving its purpose proudly.

Aland Islands
Located between Sweden and Finland, Aland Islands are an autonomous archipelago with Swedish-speaking people. Aland Islands consist of few large islands and about 10,000 small ones. Aland Islands have an interesting history where Sweden surrenders it to Russia in 1809. Later, a British/French fleet took the island and destroying all the castles. The entire archipelago was demilitarized and it is still the same today. The main attractions of Aland Islands are - Maritime Museum, the Maritime Quarter in Mariehamn, Museum Ship Pommern and Jan Karlsgården open-air museum in Kastelholm. Also, what is worth watching in the Aland Islands is its unspoiled natural landscapes and seascapes.

Rovaniemi and the Arctic
The town of Rovaniemi is popular among tourists as “the gateway to the Arctic” since the Arctic that runs through Finland, passes through the town of Rovaniemi. The city is best known as the home of Santa Claus and a place to meet Reindeers. Another attraction of the town is the famous Midnight Sun. Locals and tourists enjoy their attractions outdoors throughout these “white nights”. The town has many natural spots where canoeing, swimming, and fishing can be done, If you love to climb trails then hiking and cycling can be done. Arktikum Science Museum is a place where one can learn about Lapland culture and Arctic natural history, meteorology and geology. Also, meet Sami people here and hop on dogsled safari with them. The city hotels offer rooms with a glass ceiling for viewing northern lights from inside.

Vaasa
Vaasa was established in the 1300s and was an important town when Finland was ruled by Sweden. Unfortunately, the town burned down in 1852 and was re-established six kilometers away near a better harbor. The old burned town is now converted into a huge park. The town offers numerous cafes, restaurants, and shops for visitors. The main attraction is the peace and serenity that the city offers. People can walk along the waterfront that is extended miles along the coast. Other attractions of the city include Kuntsi Museum of Modern Art, the Ostrobothnian Museum, the Terranova Kvarken Nature Center, the Tikanoja Art Museum, and the Vaasa Maritime Museum.

Tampere
With a population of 234,441, Tampere is a popular inland city located in Pirkanmaa among the Southern region of Finland. It is recorded as the ‘second largest urban area’ and ‘third densely populated isolated city’ which lies in Finland. It is situated between two beautiful lakes, Pyhajarvi and Nasijarvi. In the Finnish industry, Tampere is the erstwhile center with its magnate olden days and is labelled as the “Finland Manchester.” Among the list of tourist attractions in Tampere, some of the famous sites are Nasinneula tower, Sarkanniemi amusement park, Dolphinarium, Tampere city hall, cathedral, Kaleva church, Metso library, and the market hall. With the presence of Vladimir Lenin’s last museum, it is a famous city among visitors in Finland. In 1905, Lenin came to Tampere and met Joseph Stalin in the Bolshevik conference held in the Tampere Worker’s Hall.

Oulu
Oulu is a borough with a community of 202,753 occupants as per the 2018 records. It lies in the North Ostrobothnia, Finland. In the regions of Northern Finland, it is regarded as a densely populated city. It is also titled as the “Europe’s living lab” for the community is involved in experimenting with the latest technologies on a large scale. The city has taken its name from a river Oulujoki. Along with this theory, many other possible reasons also contribute to its name. Each year, several concerts and some cultural occasion are celebrated in the city since it is a residence for many performers, authors, and other geniuses. The visitors can enjoy at Air Guitar World Championships, Oulu Music Video Festival, Musician Music Film Competition held in the month of August. Some of the exquisite museums placed in the city are Tietomaa science center, Northern Ostrobothnia museum, Turkansaari open-air museum, and Oulu Art Museum. The statue of The Bobby and Frans Michael Franzen makes it is a picturesque place to visit.

Hameenlinna
The Burgh occupies a community of about 68,000 residents. It lies in the former territory of Hame, Southern Finland. Being the old central city in Finland, it comes out as a significant topical place in the country. Until the nineteenth century, it was a predominant city in the region of Finland. Jean Sibelius, the composer was born in the city of Hameenlinna. At present, it is a part of the Tavastia Proper. Before 2010, it was a residential place for the provincial governor of Southern Finland. With the presence of a Gothic Hame castle, it becomes a famous tourist attraction place. It is famed for its center of learning which gave education to some of the legendary Finns. Hameenlinna’s life is portrayed from the history in the schools and military presence in the city. It is a place where Finland’s first railway track was introduced between Helsinki and Hameenlinna in the early times of 1862. Next, to the city, a beautiful lake Vanajavesi captures the entire attention of the visitors.

Lemmenjoki National Park
If you are a nature admirer and want to experience the wilderness then this is the place for you. The boreal forest is one of the largest national parks in Finland with extensive wild lands in the whole of Europe. Trekking can be done across hundreds of kilometers on marked trails and can stop by in free open wilderness huts or rental huts with facilities of sauna and campfire. Lemmenjoki River adds to the beauty of the park as it flows down the fells into the valley of pines. The forest is home for wolves, brown bears, wild golden eagles, moose, and reindeers.

Snow Castle of Kemi
Snow Castle of Kemi is the biggest snow fort in the world. The fort is built in every winter in various architectural designs and structures. It was first built in 1996 which drew around 300,000 visitors. The castle has tall buildings and walls, all made up of ice. Every year the configuration of the castle varies, however, few elements like a chapel, a restaurant, and a hotel remains the same. The place offers adventure for children, theatres and light and sound art exhibition for visitors.

Skiing in Levi
Levi has the best Skiing and Snowboarding Resort in Finland. The pistes of Levi are liked by families and alpine stars. To enjoy the pristine view of this place hop on to 6-seater chair lift with seat heating and wind-protecting bubble. There are 43 different slopes made according to the ability of an individual. With 124 miles of trails that include cross country ski sections, there are black runs for downhill skiers also. If you are not a skiing person, don’t worry, the place has other activities for you like snowboarding, husky sled rides, and reindeer parks. Levi is also famous for Alpine World Cup Race held every year.

Urho Kekkonen National Park
Urho Kekkonen National Park is the second largest protected area in Finland. It extends from the Resort of Saariselkä crossing the Finnish Lapland and goes all the way to the Russian border. The park is famous for its magnificent trek through the Arctic fell. One can trek either on foot or ski and can stop by in wilderness hut for a night. Korvatunturi is a remote fell in this national park, famous as the home of the father of Christmas. The park has marked trails for hiking and skiing. The place adorns wilderness sceneries, crystal clear water running through rivers and stream, mysterious Korvatunturi Fell, and local reindeer husbandry tradition.

Nuuksio National Park
Established in 1994, Nuuksio National Park is one of the 40 National Parks in Finland. A day trip from Helsinki to Nuuksio National Park is a great way to relax in the lap of nature. The park has beautiful lakes, green forests and rugged rock lands. The best way to know the park is by hiking. Both marked and natural trails are available (1.5 - 17 Km). Bike trails and horse trails can also be considered as an option.

Archipelago National Park
Archipelago National Park is situated to the southwest of Finland and was established in 1983. It has a land area of 500 square kilometers. The “non-qualified area” in the park is part of UNESCO biosphere reserves. The purpose of the park is not only to preserve the natural flora and fauna but also to protect the Archipelago culture and traditional agriculture landscape. The park can be explored by boating except for some restricted areas. Building campfires and Camping is permitted in a few places.

Imatrankoski Rapids
The formation of Imatrankoski Rapids goes back to 5000 years when land rose after Ice age and water of lake Saimaa tore the Salpauselkä Ridge apart. The Rapid has been a famous tourist spot for more than 300 years and was considered as Europe’s most known attractions in the 1800s. Kruununpuisto Park surrounds the area around Imatrankoski Rapids. One can admire the magnificent play of water here and can also go for sightseeing of various monuments. Imatra - one of the largest hydroelectric power plants of Finland can be seen here.

Pyhä-Luosto National Park
A National Park in Lapland, Pyhä-Luosto National Park has some of the magnificent landscapes, beautiful natural spots, and peace. The park was made by joining Pyhätunturi National Park (oldest park in Finland) and Luosto, in 2005 making it the oldest and the newest at the same time. The park covers an area of 142 square kilometers. The salient features of the park are geological specialties, old forests, and wetlands.

Hietaniemi
Hietaniemi is a popular sandy beach in Helsinki, the capital of Finland. Located in Töölö district, a few kilometers from Hietaniemi, the place is a popular summer destination for locals and tourists. People come to relax and play volleyball on the sand beach. Also, the Hietsu Beach Volley tournament is conducted every year since 1995.
Estonia

Seaplane Harbour
The Seaplane Harbour is a maritime museum in Tallinn Estonia opened in spring 2012. The museum is part of the Estonian Maritime Museum. The museum is located in the Tallinn aeroplane harbour in a building originally constructed as a hangar for seaplanes in the area of Peter the Greats Naval Fortress. The hall has an area of 8000 m. The hall was put out of service d

Alexander Nevsky Cathedral Tallinn
The spectacular onion-domed shaped structure is one of the grandest Orthodox Church in Tallinn. It’s designed in a different historical style perched atop on Toompea hill in 1900. Within the tower of the church is the most powerful collection of church bells. There are about 11 bells in there, including its largest bell which weighs about 15 tonnes. Before each service starts, you can hear the whole ensemble playing so in tune. As for its interiors, it’s so beautifully adorned and decorated with icons and mosaic; it’s such an attraction that’s worth to visit.

Toompea Hill
This is an ancient 10-century fortress that stands on a high limestone plateau. And, this old section of Tallinn is what keeps most visitors busy during their stay. Its cobbled winding street will take you to the past hidden country yards, lanes, spire churches and old merchant houses. The old town is now divided into two parts which are the Toompea Hill and the lower town. The place is very well managed and preserved. Besides, the lanes, streets etc, there’s more to get visitors to enjoy the place! Climb on to the higher to Pikk jalg, and you will find yourself in the castle square and have a bird’s eye view of the city.

Tallinn Town Hall
The Tallinn Town Hall is a building in the Tallinn Old Town Estonia next to the Town Hall Square. It is the oldest town hall in the whole of the Baltic region and Scandinavia.

Tallinn Town Hall
Raekoja plats is a town square beside Tallinn Town Hall in the center of the Tallinn Old Town in Tallinn Estonia. It is a venue for numerous small festivals or concerts like Tallinn Old Town Days and several bars and restaurants are located in the near vicinity.

Tallinn TV Tower
The Tallinn TV tower is a free-standing structure with an observation deck built to provide better telecommunication services for the 1980 Moscow Summer Olympics regatta event. It is located near the suburb Pirita six km northeast of the Tallinn city center. With its 313 m the TV tower is the tallest building in Tallinn. The tower was officially opened on 11 July 1980.

Tallinn Zoo
Tallinn Zoo is a zoo in Tallinn Estonia that was founded in 1939. It is the only zoo in Estonia and as of 2012 it housed 13336 animals representing 548 species. Since 2009 it is the most visited zoo in the Baltic states.

Tallinn
Tallinn and its UNESCO-protected Old Town have put its charm on Europe. And, now it is one of Europe’s most enchanting cities. Estonia’s quiet countryside and green forest provide spiritual sustenance for nature-lovers. Tallinn Tourist Places offers Sightseeing, Tours, Activities, Shopping, Events and Nightlife. The city is full of life and there are many restaurants, Cafés Pubs & Bars Vinotheques to find food and drinks.

When you feel like you need to relax and recharging after an exhausting day, you can always visit these serene places such as Green City, Pirita Promenade, and TV Tower or take up Spa etc.

Tartu
Tartu is one of the smartest locations in Estonia. It also claims to be the Spiritual city of Estonia as locals talk about Tartu vaim, a special spirit created by the timely traditional wooden houses and buildings. It’s a small provincial town that has the river, Emajogi flowing through it. There are a lot of students in this town as its Estonia’s university town; it makes the city more vibrant as there are more of the youth population. The city is less populated in the summer as the students leave the city for the beach. Summer is always pleasant in Tartu and it’s nice to visit and see one of the Estonia Tourist Spots!

Parnu
This is Estonia’s premier seaside and summer holiday destination for local families, youths and holidaymakers. It’s one of Estonia Tourist Places that are popular among the tourists. While jaywalking along the beach, the park...they can also relax in many cocktail bars, restaurants and spas around the area. It’s Estonia’s biggest towns, almost as big as Milan, Berlin and other places. In spite of being a large city, yet Parnus had a population of only about 60 people per sq km. There’s always a romantic flair due to its medieval monuments and landscapes. It’s also home to many water parks, spas and historical bathhouses.

Narva Castle
Located in the northern point of Estonia and it’s the country third largest city. It’s separated by Narva River, and the area is mostly populated by the Russians. The city was found in the middle ages by Denmark. It quite a border town located at the end of the main street right up to the edge of the town square. Most of its architecture was destroyed in WWII, and only a few of its magnificent castle and baroque old town hall. The city has a downtrodden air to it which makes it unique from other cities in Estonia.

Otepaa
This place is the centre of a pictorial area of lakes, forests and rivers. This small district lies in the southern Estonian valleys and hills. Well known and beloved by tourist as a winter holiday destination. There are several winter activities to do here such as ice skating, skiing and snowboarding in all its forms. These winter activities are available at many winter resorts, spa hotels and restaurants. The place has its own beauty in the summertime as you can see the natural beauty of the place with its landscapes, flowers, and trees. Summer is the best time to hike along the park and see the lakes, village roads and the whole beauty of this place.

Hiiumaa Island
A popular place out of all Estonia attraction and the second largest island in Estonia. It’s well-known for its untouched nature, historical lighthouses and makes this place a gateway year round. During the coldest time, it’s fun to drive along the island across the longest ice road of Europe. The place is equally loved by nature holiday-makers, sailors, surfers and hikers. For those looking out for peace and reticent, this is an ideal destination. There are a lot of local sites to explore, and the much-admired Kopu lighthouse is one of the oldest in the world.

Lahemaa National Park
The Park serves as natural and cultural landscapes in Estonia. Lahemaa is one of Europe’s most important forest conservation areas. It’s Estonia’s natural charms that are perfect for a retreat from the nearby capital. The park takes a stretch of the coast as well as several bays and peninsulas, plus the pine-land encompasses lakes, forests, rivers, and bogs with many areas of historical and cultural interests. The last Ice age has left with stony sandy seashores, rivers, erratic rocks, and pine and cliff forests. There’s a very popular town within the park called Loksa, which is visited by many visitors for its sandy beach.

Rakvere Castle
This site is one of Estonia’s earliest fortifications dating back to the fifth and sixth centuries. Though built in the 14th century by the Danes, yet the castle had many other masters like the German, Russians, Polish and the Swedish. The castle holds the remains of its architecture, and inside the castle, there’s a theme park exhibiting the 16th-century life. The castle is visited by both young and old people who like to spend time gearing up as entertainers, knights and warriors or even learn about the middle ages or the early modern period.

Viljandi
Viljandi is one of Estonia’s most charming towns hidden deep within Estonian’s southern forests.  In the 13th century, the Knights of the Sword found the castle. Later on, there were many towns that grew around it and joined the Hanseatic League but subsequently were at the mercy of other rulers. The place is now different altogether; it’s a relaxing place perfect for time-travelling who wants to see the castle ruins, historic buildings and abundant greenery. The crowd of visitors flock here during summer as its one of Estonia’s most visited festive destination. It’s a perfect place for both nature and culture lovers.

Saaremaa Island
Saaremaa is an Estonian island famous for its beaches, spas and traditional villages. It’s also home to medieval Kuressaare Castle. For about eight thousand years, the territory of Saaremaa has been inhabited. There have been many battles in Saaremaa and like most cities in Estonia; this did not survive the ruling of Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Russia. For some reason due to its location and isolation, Saaremaa has retained its uniqueness. One can still see stone fences and houses with thatched roofs in the villages.

Witches Well
The Witch’s well is a peculiar attraction in the Estonian village of Tuhala.  But after a heavy downpour, the entire area begins to spout water and floods. The locals have a belief that it’s the doings of the witch. According to legend, the witches live under the ground of the well, beating each other vigorously with birch branches. Thus the whole story of the noises heard by the people makes sense. The truth is, it overflows during times of high-water at very high speed and thus his creates the natural effect phenomenon. The pressure is created by an underground river.

Kuressaare
Estonia is a small town and the capital of the largest. The town is big in its shipping industry. Though it’s a small and secluded town, there are daily flights from Tallinn to Kuressaare making it very easy for travellers to travel to this place. The place was mentioned the first time on Arab maps in 1154. This town has been living without any disturbance, and there have not been many ruins as the islands have not been affected like the mainland. There's more touch and fell of human life on the island than the mainland. It a good place for families as it got pristine nature and sea around it.

Haapsalu
This place was very popular among the Russian aristocracy, but now it hosts a lot of festivals and its home to many restaurants. For many centuries, this place has been known for its peaceful atmosphere, seawater and curative mud. It is 20th century wooden along the narrow streets which make it look somewhat similar to Venice. Therefore it is also commonly known as “Venice of the Baltic”. The place is so romantic with its seaside promenade and deeply rooted spa culture. There are many things to do and see here like the cathedral, festivals, music hall, island, nature and much more.

Nova & Noarootsi
Nõva and Noarootsi are located on the coasts of Estonia. Over the years, travellers have been enchanted with their Scandinavian feel and untouched nature. Due to the footsteps left behind by the Swedes, there's a great amount of wealth of history and traditions. One can find the oldest and smallest wooden church of Estonia in here. Due to the Noarootsi peninsula, visitors are drawn to its pine tree forest, it’s beautiful sandy beach and are popular places for bird watching in Estonia. There are many things to do here such as windsurfing, sailing, kayaking and touring. Once can still enjoy and see the traces left by Soviet military history in Noarootsi.

Lake Peipus
The fifth largest lake in Europe is only about 15 m in depth. On its sandy, there are some un-crowded beaches to be found in and around the place. The lake has remnants of a water body which existed during an era of the Ice age. The Lake has three islands which consist of Lake Peipsi, Lake Pskov and Lake Lammijarv. During the Soviet time, this was a popular resort area, but many of them were crumbling and new development took over them. There’s a beautiful isolated fishing village with few residents and an Orthodox monastery.

Ruhnu
An Estonian island with a picturesque atmosphere offers unique beach experiences. Located in the Gulf of Riga, it has few inhabitants and can be accessed by plane or ferry service. Most of the artefacts found on these islands date back to 5000B.C. But the first record of a document that found to be evident is a letter sent by the Bishop of Courland in 1341 in regards to the islander. The island has an impressive tower lighthouse which stands on the highest point of the hill Haubejerre, and the fascinating fact was that the tower was designed by Gustave Eiffel himself.

Kihnu
The seventh largest island in Estonia is located southeast from Saaremaa. The men and women of this island have been the guardian of its heritage, culture, handicrafts, music and other activities. It’s an ancient island of fishermen and seafarers. The whole place along with its culture, music, language clothing and handicrafts are part of the UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage List. To experience the old traditions of the island, visit the place during St. Catherine’s day, Mid-summer Day or exciting event organised by the island on the month of May, June, July, August and October.

Setomaa
Setomaa is located on the south of Lake Peipus and inhabited by the Seto people. This ethnic and linguistic group are much admired and loved for their authentic traditional villages, vocal heritage and food. The best place to explore some European indigenous culture due to their geographical location, culture, religion and roots. And, to see Seto traditional villages, head to the south-eastern border of Estonia. They are also well known for the old singing tradition; it is well kept alive till today by both the older and younger generations alike. The food should be something on any visitor’s list to try out like their home cooked pie, fish and dairy products.

Sillamae
The mesmerising town is located near the Gulf of Finland at the mouth of Sotke River. The area has its first mentioned by the locality named Sillamaggi under the control of Livonian Order. In 1964, the first industrial city was created and decided to establish a metallurgy plant in order to get the uranium oxides from the oil shale ore. Today, the town stands proud to show its buildings from the post-war period of Stalin, museums and classical avenues. There is excursion available if one wants to see the Silamae Museum and the exhibition of the museum. It’s also a favourite of Estonia attractions.

Valga
It’s a town in southern Estonia contended between Latvia and Estonia. It is the capital City of Valga County. Until 1920, the town of Valka and Valga was one town. A British mediator was called to settle the dispute and suggested to split the town into two. As a result, when you walk around the centre of town, you will find yourself in and out of Valga and Valka. There’s a very slow process of gratification that Valga is enjoying, but some parks and old wooden houses are still skimmed by some industrial areas. There are a lot of interesting things to see both on the Valka side and Estonian side of the border.

Voru
Võru is a municipality and town in south-eastern Estonia. It is the capital of Võru County and the centre of Võru Parish. Võru County officially is a county in Southern Estonia. It is bordered by Põlva County and Valga County. It is the only Estonian county bordering two countries - Latvia and Russian Federation in the east. There were few places that visitors can visit such as Dr. Fr. R. Kreutzwald Memorial Museum, St Catherine’s Lutheran Church, St Catherine’s Orthodox Church, Võru County Museum and many others.

Korvemaa Nature Reserve
What makes Kõrvemaa a popular nature getaway destination in northern Estonia is its beautiful nature, unique landscape, versatile selection of plants and wild animals. Tourist comes here for its lakes, forests, and marshes. Take an adventure trip by climbing the hills, stroll across the wooden trails or even go hiking into the forests. Kõrvemaa is also a popular holiday destination for skiing as its tourist best places to visit in Estonia. During the autumn season, wild animals attract photographers and nature enthusiasts as it’s a natural habitat for many rare and protected species of birds.

Pirita Beach
Pirita beach is the most popular one in Tallinn and most visited of Tallinn Attractions. There are beach-goers and lovers from all over the city. The beach has lockers, changing rooms, playgrounds for children and areas for ball games. Volleyball is quite popular here, and one of the popular activities is done in and around the beach. In the summertime, there's a ten-pin bowling club bar and kiosks. That's not it; they're also a small market to stroll around!

Tallinn Old Town
This is the best-preserved city in Northern Europe, and thus visitors from all over the world drop around to see the beauty of this place. The town boasts well of its enchanting architecture, winding cobblestones and Gothic spires. Once it was home to rich merchants from Denmark, Germany and beyond the old town. Now many visitors visit museums, restaurants, bars, galleries and historical centres. Tallinn, unlike many cities in Europe, has managed to keep and preserve its structure of medieval origin. In 1997, the Old Town was listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site.

Tallinn Town Hall Square
Since the middle ages, Town hall square was well known for being a market place. For almost eight centuries, it’s been the heart of the city life. During the 13th and 14 century, it’s the centre of the Lower town and thus plays an important role even today. Its summer is alive with medieval festivals, plays, outdoor cafes, concerts, fairs and many more interesting activities. In the winter, the town is magical with the Christmas feel and festive throughout the market. And, Christmas means more to the town than any place as it was believed to have erected the first Christmas tree by the brotherhood of the blackheads.

Toompea Castle
The castle tower over the rest of the city as it’s laid right on the limestone cliff. It’s always been the seating power of Estonia. The castle was built on the foundations of the collapsing fortress built on this side in the 13th and 14 centuries. It’s made in a Baroque style between 1767 and 1773. The history of try of the castle lies in the story of the rulers and conquerors of Estonia. And, today, it Estonia's parliament, they even have the flag at the top of the Hermann tower to represent Estonia's independence.

Kadriorg Palace
The palace is home to a number of captivating 19th and 20th-century art museums and villas. It’s considered to be one of the grandest examples in Estonian architectural history. Since the 18th century, the palace has been well preserved as it was an imperial summer residence. The king’s crown, however, is in the palace. Peter the great established a family retreat here that was responsible for building Kadriorg. The palace was designed in such a way of trying to resemble the Italian palaces of the time. Today, it houses the best foreign art collection of the Estonian art museum.

Oleviste Church
There was a time when this Gothic architectural church was one of the tallest buildings in the world, soaring up to 159 meters in height. The church was completed in the 16th century and has always known to be a grand structure. It’s also has a 124-meter tower, known to be one of Estonia’s symbols. The church is supposedly known to have taken its name from sainted Norwegian king Olav II Haraldsson. The reformation in Tallinn started in 1523 by the preaching of Zacharias Hasse, who was then the chaplain of the church.

Lennusadam Seaplane Harbour
The Lennusadam Seaplane Harbour is part of the Estonian maritime museum devoted to exhibiting all things related to seafaring. See the Viking ships, shipwreck and seaplane cramped in this maritime museum. There are original watercraft set in the hangar which was built in 1916 and 1917. At the time of its construction, it was considered to be an architectural marvel because of its vast building and engineering advances. Seaplanes hangars are one of the most unique architecture in the whole world. The museum consists of very modern exhibitions at different sections of which many are connected to the cold war period.

KGB Museum
It’s a great Soviet monolith that’s become of Estonia’s main attractions. The museum was once a hotel by the name of Viru. It was a luxurious hotel in the 1970s that was appropriate for foreign visitors. The museums tell a story of two different worlds altogether where the Soviet citizens living here wanted nothing more than friendship. It was full of all-powerful men where there was never any trouble or accidents or catastrophe. Not many people can visit the hotel’s top floor as it was supposed to be a technical room. After the Soviets fled, it was discovered that the technical rooms had these high vintage James bond equipment.

Kadriorg Park
It’s an outstanding park with urban and palatial features covering around 70 hectares. The construction of this park began in 1718 on the orders of Peter I, the Russian. The elements of the 18th -20th centuries design can be seen here. The best places to see around the park are the flower beds that circle the Swan Pond and the promenade that leads to the palace of the President. There are a number of museums to visit in the park such as KUMU, Mikkeli Museum, Kardriog Art Museum, monuments and sculptural works.

Linnahall
It’s situated beyond the walls of the old town and now stands as a concrete ghost town. It was commissioned by the Soviet Union to show the skills of concrete pouring. At the time, while the world could not really show the potential of building seats, they certainly show to the world that it was possible. They built the massive 5,000 concrete amphitheatre seats. But over the years, this place started to degrade under the stress of time, and the rocks finally crumble. Though the arena is used for the certain occasion from time to time, the seats are generally empty.

Kumu Art Museum
One of Estonia’s largest museums is in Tallinn. It was opened in the year 2006 as headquarter of Art Museum Estonia. The museum has a huge collection of Estonia’s art museum and preserves it well. It houses many permanent and viable exhibitions of Kumu art museum, accommodates the conservation department, an auditorium, gallery of modern exhibitions and an educational centre. The museum is one of the main branches of Estonia’s art museum that houses Estonia’s art right from the 18th century up to the year 1991. There’s a lot of artwork collected in the museum over the centuries.

St Mary’s Cathedral
The Dome church stands right at the centre of the town of Toompea. It’s one of the most popular historical attractions of Estonia. It was firstly mentioned in the year 1233, and there are many gravestones that can be found here dating from centuries as well as epitaphs. There were many famous people that were buried here such as King Johann III's daughter Sophia Gyllenhelm, Pontus De la Gardie, the Swedish military officer along with his wife, Swedish Admiral Samuel Greigh; and Admiral Adam Johan von Krusenstern.

The Russalka Memorial
The memorial was built in memory to those who lost their lives in the Gulf of Finland on Russalka, the Russian naval vessel. It was built in the year 1902 by Amandus Adamson. It’s a 16-meter sculpture of an angel facing the sea where the Palace comes down to meet the Bay of Tallinn. There were at least about 177 men who were tragically sunk in the Russian military ship while they were on their way to Helsinki in 1893. This monument now become has a Tallinn main attractions and a traditional spot for Russian couples to lay flowers on their wedding day.

St. Nicholas’ Orthodox Church
Built-in 827 and considered to be the first neoclassical structure church in Tallinn. It was a focal point of trading for the Russian traders as it’s known for its iconostasis. It was designed by Luigi Rusca, who was St. Petersburgh court architecture. The church features its dome copper and twin bell tower with intriguing interior design. As for its history, it dates back much further and as far as the 12th century. When the town was being rebuilt in the year 1442, the church that was in the middle of the market was being replaced with a new one

Estonian Open Air Museum
The Museum is just 15 min drive away from the centre of Tallinn. It is a big and well known museum that showcases the country’s rural architectural life and the life around it. There are about 14 farms that shows the status of different family life who were living in the 18-20th centuries. Just like in any village, there’s also church, inn, school, mills, shop, fires station, and fishing harbour by the sea. While strolling around the museum, you can also have a look at the shops that sells handicrafts as souvenirs or ride horses or even try local dish at the inn.

Estonian History Museum
The Great medieval great hall has always been part and parcel in the life of the city. There’s a permanent exhibition at Museum know as Spirit of survival helps to understand 11,000 years of Estonian’s history along with the traditional and cultural life of the people. It also shows the historical events that have affected the people the most. The story of Estonian past is disclosed through rooms with different topics, such as the Gun Room that tell the history of the war that happens in Estonia. There’s also a special exhibition called the Power of elite that talk about the Great Guild and trade in the medieval time.

Balti Jaama Turg
To explore the main market in Estonia, this is the place to shop for all you need. People here sell and buys food, products and many more. It can be manufactured goods, antiques and many others. There are at least about 300 different sellers and shops you will find in the market. There are three different levels that the trading takes place, and in the kioska and standing outside the buildings. Underground of the market, there’s a big supermarket and a gym.

Kiek in de Kök
To learn and understand the history of Tallinn’s defences, the museum is an excellent introduction to all the new visitors to this place. It was built in the 14th century with six store cannon tower which played a very important role in the War. On its walls, it still has Ivan’s IV’s nine cannonballs. There’s a joke that the tower got its name from its tops as the kitchen view of the houses below could be seen right through. The tower has been remodelled a lot of time, the upper floor has new ceiling and outer whereas the two lowest floors were hidden by earthworks.
Cambodia
While its progress for years was lulled with a tragic history of war and bloodshed, Cambodia came back even stronger becoming the tourism mecca in Asia and has today pinned itself prominently on the tourism map. Although we must admit that this incredible country is synonymous with its dark history, the numerous temples and their architectural brilliance, there is so much more on the long list of Cambodia Attractions to explore; so much so that you’ll be baited to ask for more. Watch the sunrise over Angkor Wat or the ruins of Ta Prohm, explore the riverside boulevards and art galleries popping up in Phnom Penh, experience Siem Reap’s hip cafes and fine dining beyond the ancient temples, see the rurally rich Battambang or travel around the coastal towns of Kep and Sihanoukville- whatever is your preference, these wonderful places to visit in Cambodia will truly make your travelling to the country an experience to remember! If you are a nature aficionado, you will be happy spending your extra time amongst Cambodia’s natural wonders such as Tonle Sap Lake and jade-hued Yeak Lom Crater Lake while you meet and get along with the most hospitable Khmer people who are believed to be the strength of the country.  For Cambodia, if Siem Reap is its spiritual soul, Phnom Penh is its wild heartbeat. Eclectic and fascinating, chaotic yet charismatic, the capital city Phnom Penh envelops visitors in its bustling city life, hip cafes, world-class dining, riverside boulevards and a lively nightlife while there is also a shimmering coastline of sandy white beaches that tempts every sun sloth. The wide portfolio of Phnom Penh Attractions includes the famed National Museum of Cambodia known for its impressive terracotta exterior and a massive collection of Khmer sculptures, Psar Themi which is a great place for local indulgence, Tuol Sleng Genocide Museum that narrates the dark crimes of the Khmer Rouge, killing fields of Choeung Ek that reflect upon the blood-filled past and of course, the unmissable Royal Palace complex. Read on to get more ideas on the magnificent places to visit in Phnom Penh and the typical touristy things to do in the city.   If you have ever conjured up an image of the ideal country where the ancient and modern worlds collide, Cambodia fulfils your travel dream! To filter out the choices for you, here’s our list of Top Cambodia Tourist Attractions that will have you visiting and experiencing these unique highlights, time and again.
Thang Long Water Puppet Theatre


National Museum of Cambodia


Independence Monument


Phnom Tamao Zoological Park and Wildlife Rescue Center (PTWRC)


Cambodia Landmine Museum


Angkor Center for Conservation of Biodiversity (ACCB)


Angkor Temple Guides


Wat Preah Keo Morakot (Silver Pagoda)


Tonle Sap River


Bayon Temple


Bayon Temple


Preah Ponlea Sdach Komlong (Terrace Of The Leper King)


Jade Emperor Pagoda


Angkor Thom
Angkor Thom alternatively Nokor Thom located in present-day Cambodia was the last and most enduring capital city of the Khmer Empire. It was established in the late twelfth century by King Jayavarman VII.

The Royal Palace
The Royal Palace was first built by king Suryavarman I and used continuously from the 11th to the late 16th century AD. During that period the area was transformed and restored several times. Recent excavations have revealed many remains such as a 10th-century temple that was built by a minister to Yasovarman I which was probably considered to be this ministers residence.

Banteay Srei
Banteay Srei or Banteay Srey is a 10th-century Cambodian temple dedicated to the Hindu god Shiva. Located in the area of Angkor it lies near the hill of Phnom Dei 25 km northeast of the main group of temples that once belonged to the medieval capitals of Yasodharapura and Angkor Thom.
Armenia
Standing at the conjunction of past and present, Armenia, a country located in the crossroads of Asia and Europe, has indeed grasped enough attention on the world stage. Known as the ancient ‘Land of Noah’, the country is a hotbed of history, abundantly filled with stories of resilience, with historical sites dating back over a millennium, with beautiful scenery of Mount Ararat dominating the country’s skyline and heartwarming hospitality of locals putting you at ease. While every city in Armenia offers unusual historical sites and plenty of monasteries that beg exploration, the experience of touring the Armenia attractions is truly rewarding as it is exciting.While every part of the Armenia tourist attractions offers the kind of adventure you might be looking for, there's nothing as surprising as the delight of its capital city Yerevan which is too good to miss. Thanks to its rich historic and cultural heritage, unique architecture, fascinating landmarks, great museums and a thriving nightlife, the places to visit in Yerevan are fast becoming the topmost choices in the Armenia travel itineraries. Even though Armenia is a small country, often overlooked by travellers, there are all kinds of off-the-path and incredible Armenia tourist places and spots that are sure to catch your interest. Have a look at the best places to visit in Armenia along with the must-see Yerevan attractions below and gear up to make a new bucket list before you jet off on a memorable voyage to amazing Armenia!
Republic Square
Republic Square is the central town square in Yerevan the capital of Armenia. It consists of two sections an oval roundabout and a trapezoid-shaped section which contains a pool with musical fountains. The square is surrounded by five major buildings built in pink and yellow tufa in the neoclassical style with extensive use of Armenian motifs. This architectural ensemble includes the Government House the History Museum and the National Gallery Armenia Marriott Hotel and two buildings that formerly housed the ministries of Foreign Affairs and Transport and Communications. The square was originally designed by Alexander Tamanian in 1924. The construction of most of the buildings was completed by the 1950s the last buildingthe National Gallerywas completed in 1977. During the Soviet period it was called Lenin Square and a statue of Vladimir Lenin stood at the square. Soviet parades and celebrations were held twice a year until 1988. After Armenias independence Lenins statue was removed and the square was renamed. It has been described as Yerevans architectural highlight and the citys most outstanding architectural ensemble

Dilijan National Park
Dilijan National Park is one of the four national parks of Armenia. Occupying an area of 240 km², it is located in the north-eastern Tavush Province of Armenia. Your Armenia stay is incomplete if you don’t relax in Dillijan National Park. Dillijan is a charming resort town in the wooded hilly region of picture perfect north of Armenia. You can walk in the densely forested and mountain area which for its surroundings is called ‘Armenian Switzerland’ by locals here. The weather here is cool to add to your excitemental mineral water springs natural and cultural monuments and extensive network of hiking trails

Haghartsin Monastery Complex
Haghartsin (Armenian ) is a 13th-century monastery located near the town of Dilijan in the Tavush Province of Armenia. It was built between the 10th and 13th centuries (in the 12th under Khachatur of Taron) much of it under the patronage of the Bagratuni Dynasty.

Geghard Monastery
Geghard Monastery or (Airivank) was founded in 4th century. Geghardavank is a holy place, where the spear by which Jesus Christ was pierced on the cross by Roman soldier, is kept. The monastery is designated by UNESCO as World Heritage Site. Geghard is a medieval monastery in the Kotayk province of Armenia, being partially carved out of the adjacent mountain, surrounded by cliffs. The spectacular towering cliffs which surround the monastery are part of the Azat River gorge, and are listed together with the monastery as the world heritage site. Some of the churches in the monastery  are cut out of cliff rocks entirely, while are little more than caves and some are elaborate structures which has complex wall sections and rooms deep inside the cliffs

Mother Armenia monument
Mother Armenia is a female personification of Armenia. Her most public visual rendering is a monumental statue in Victory Park overlooking the capital city of Yerevan Armenia. Mother Armenia has a height of 22 metres (72 ft) thus making the overall height of the monument 51 metres (167 ft) including the pedestal. The statue is built of hammered copper while the pedestal-museum is of basalt It resembles the monumental complex of Mother Armenia in the capital Yerevan. It was erected in 1975 on a hill west of Gyumri city. It was composed by sculptors Ara Sargsian and Yerem Vartanyan. The architect is Rafik Yeghoyan.

Cascade Complex
The Cascade is a giant stairway made of limestone in Yerevan Armenia. It links the downtown Kentron area of Yerevan with the Monument neighborhoodCascade Yerevan is the beating heart of the city. It is where the youth gathers for drinks it is where all open-air concerts are held it is where you can capture the best panorama of Yerevan. Cascades benefits are probably countless.Due to the Armenian-American businessman and art collector Gerard Cafesjianss investments and connections Cascade has become a valuable open-air and free-access modern art museum.

Armenian Opera Theatre
Armenian National Academic Theatre of Opera and Ballet named after Alexander Spendiaryan in Yerevan was officially opened on 20 January 1933 It consists of two concert halls the Aram Khatchaturian concert hall with 1400 seats and the Alexander Spendiaryan Opera and Ballet National Theatre with 1200 seats.Since it was opened the Armenian National Opera & Ballet Theatre has performed more than 200 different operas and ballets by Armenian Russian and Western European composers.

Megerian Carpet Museum
You will see on display an array of Antique and one of a kind rugs and carpets at the museum from the private collections of the Megerian family.

Vernissage Market
You can find in Vernissage the best examples of Armenian folk art unique jewelry exclusive handmade masterpieces craftsmanship. Visit Vernissage pavilion in Tashir street shopping gallery and take a piece of Armenia with you.

Garni Temple
Garni Temple is in a very strategic location, on a cliff, overlooking a range of the Geghama Mountains and Azat River near the Ararat Plain. Built in mid-1st century CE, the temple survived the destruction of pagan temples and countless invasions until its collapse in 1679 CE. It is best known structure and symbol of pre Christian Armenia. The temple was dedicated to the sun of God called as Mihr. But when Armenia took to Christianity in 4th century this temple was converted into a Royal Summer House. Garni is also an exemplary example of great geometrical design. Garni perfectly follows the Pythagorean and Platonic theories of sacred geometry in its design, a design for civilization carved form the wilderness. So, It is a major tourist attraction in Armenia.

Tsitsernakaberd
The Armenian Genocide memorial complex is Armenias official memorial dedicated to the victims of the Armenian Genocide built in 1967 on the hill of Tsitsernakaberd in Yerevan. Every year on 24 April the Armenian Genocide Remembrance Day thousands of Armenians gather at the memorial to commemorate the victims of the genocide. The people who gather in Tsiter

Sharambeyan Street


Tsaghkadzor ski resort
Tsaghkadzor Ski Resort is a sports and tourists facilities located just above the Armenian town of Tsaghkadzor of Kotayk Province approximately 60 km north east of the capital Yerevan and the Zvartnots International Airport. It was opened in 1986 adjacent to the Tsaghkadzor Olympic Sports Complex.

Lake Sevan
Lake Sevan is the largest lake in Armenia and one of the largest freshwater high-altitude Alpine lakes in Eurasia as well as a popular summer beach destination. It has many resorts, cabanas, fish restaurants and other attractions for visitors. Lake Sevan is at an altitude of 1,900 meters and located 70kms from Yerevan. One can visit Sevanavank Monastery, then head south to Hayravank Monastery and Noratus Cemetary nearby. It is one the most beautiful Attractions in Armenia

Yerevan State University


Victory Bridge


Residence of the President of the Republic of Armenia


Hayravank Monastery


Khor Virap Monastery
The Khor Virap (meaning "deep well") is an Armenian monastery located in the picturesqe Ararat mountains in Armenia, near the closed border with Turkey. Grigor Luisavorich (St. Gregory the Illuminator) was imprisoned here for 13 years before curing King Trdat III of a disease. This caused the conversion of the king and Armenia into the first officially Christian nation in the world in the year 301. Khor Virap is located on hillock in Pokr Vedi, the village which is 4 KM away from the main highway there. This is just 30 KM from Yerevan, the capital and most happening city of Armenia. What is most interesting thing about Khor Virap is its history. Khor Virap was used as royal prison

Areni Wine Factory
Wine heaven  in Armenia. visit to historical  Areni Winery and have a tour in wine storage .Accompanied with wine tasting at personal cost

Swan Lake
Situated in Yerevan less than 1 km from Armenian Opera and Ballet Theatre and a 12-minute walk from Republic Square Swan lake features air-conditioned accommodation with a balcony and free WiFi. The property features city and mountain views and i

Noratus cemetery
Noratus cemetery also spelled Noraduz is a medieval cemetery with many early khachkars located in the village of Noratus Gegharkunik marz near Gavar and Lake Sevan 90 km north of Yerevan.

Noravank
Noravank is a 13th-century Armenian monastery located 122 km from Yerevan in a narrow gorge made by the Amaghu River near the town of Yeghegnadzor Armenia. The gorge is known for its tall sheer brick-red cliffs directly across from the monastery. The monastery is best known for its two-storey Surb Astvatsatsin church which grants access to the second floor by way of a n

Armenian Genocide Museum


Sevanavank
Sevanavank is a monastic complex located on a peninsula at the northwestern shore of Lake Sevan in the Gegharkunik Province of Armenia not far from the town of Sevan. Initially the monastery was built at the southern shore of a small island. After the artificial draining of Lake Sevan which started in the era of Joseph Stalin the water level fell about 20 metres and the island transform

Zoravor Surp Astvatsatsin Church
Zoravor Surp Astvatsatsin Church is the oldest surviving church in Yerevan. It was previously known as Surp Astvatsatsin. However the name Zoravor was added because the church was home to the 13th century bible of Zoravor.

Echmiadzin Monastery


Mount Aragats
Mount Aragats is an isolated four-peaked volcano massif in Armenia. Its northern summit at 4090 m above sea level is the highest point of the Lesser Caucasus and Armenia. It is also one of the highest points in the Armenian Highlands.

Areni  cave
The Areni-1 cave complex is a multicomponent site and late ChalcolithicEarly Bronze Age ritual site and settlement located near the Areni village in southern Armenia along the Arpa River.The Areni-1 cave complex is a multicomponent site and late ChalcolithicEarly Bronze Age ritual site and settlement located near the Areni village in southern Armenia along the Arpa River.

Haghartsin Monastery
Haghartsin is a 13th-century monastery located near the town of Dilijan in the Tavush Province of Armenia. It was built between the 10th and 13th centuries much of it under the patronage of the Bagrationi Dynasty.

Zvartnots International Airport


Republic Square Yerevan
Republic Square is the central town square in Yerevan the capital of Armenia. It consists of two sections an oval roundabout and a trapezoid-shaped section which contains a pool with musical fountains. The square is surrounded by five major buildings built in pink and yellow tufa in the neoclassical style with extensive use of Armenian motifs. This architectural ensemble includes th

Cathedral of Aruch


Geghard Monastery
Geghard is a medieval monastery in the Kotayk province of Armenia partially carved out of the adjacent mountain and surrounded by cliffs. It is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site with enhanced protection status.

History Museum of Armenia
The History Museum of Armenia is a museum in Armenia with departments of Archaeology Numismatics Ethnography Modern History and Restoration. It has a national collection of 400000 objects and was founded in 1920.

Blue Mosque (Persian Mosque)
The Blue Mosque is an 18th-century Shia mosque in Yerevan Armenia. It was commissioned by Huseyn Ali Khan the khan of the Iranian Erivan Khanate. It is one of the oldest extant structures in central Yerevan and the most significant structure from the citys Iranian period.

Freedom Square Yerevan
The Freedom Square or Liberty Square also known as Opera Square and Theatre Square until 1991 is a town square located in Kentron district of Yerevan Armenia. The square is part of the Yerevan Opera Theater complex located just to the south of the main opera building between the opera park and the Swan lake. Along with the Republic Square the Freedom Square is one

Kecharis Monastery
Kecharis Monastery is a medieval Armenian monastic complex dating back to the 11th to 13th centuries located 60 km from Yerevan in the ski resort town of Tsakhkadzor in Armenia. Nestled in the Pambak mountains Kecharis was founded by a Pahlavuni prince in the 11th century and construction continued until the middle of the 13th century. In the 12th and 13th centuries Kechari

Saint Gayane Church
The Church of Saint Gayane is a 7th-century Armenian church in Vagharshapat the religious center of Armenia. It is located within walking distance from the Etchmiadzin Cathedral of 301. St. Gayane was built by Catholicos Ezra I in the year 630. Its design has remained unchanged despite partial renovations of the dome and some ceilings in 1652.

Smbataberd Fortress


Amberd Fortress
Amberd Fortress is a medieval fortress Amberd on the southern slopes of the Mount Aragats away from the hectic cities. It stands on the rocky cliff on the height of 2100 meters protected from two sides with deep gorges at the junction of rivers Amberd and Arkashen. This unique sight is located 50km from Yerevan.The history of Amberd goes back to the 7th century when Armenian princes Kamsarakan started there construction of the fortressThe architecture of Amberd is simple. Walls of the fortress are made of massive basalt tiles that once served to protect from shells and siege weapons. In some places thickness of walls reaches 4 meters. Foundations of construction and few walls had been preserved inside the fortress. Church Vagramashen was built in 1026 and reached our days practically in its original state. Church architecture is ascetic as well as the entire fortress and its only exquisite detail is the southern door.

Trchuneri (Bird) Cave


Makravank Monastery


Saint Christopher Monastery
Saint Christopher Monastery is a restored Armenian church of the 7th century located in a cemetery 2.2 kilometres southeast of the outskirts of Dashtadem village and Dashtadem Fortress in the Aragatsotn Province of Armenia. Adjacent to the church is a Saint Christopher Monastery is a restored Armenian church of the 7th century located in a cemetery 2.2 kilometres southeast of the outskirts of Dashtadem village and Dashtadem Fortress in the Aragatsotn Province of Armenia. Adjacent to the church is a 13th-century stone rectangular tower with sloped walls. It has small windows on the upper portion of the wall but no access to the interior. The surrounding cemetery has been in use from the 6th century to modern times and contains several interesting khachkars. A low-stone wall surrounds the complex and a section of the old cemetery. Dashtadem Fortress may be seen in the distance from the monastery.

Sasuntsi Davit Statue
Sasuntsi Davit is a copper equestrian statue depicting David of Sassoun in Yerevan Armenia. Erected by Yervand Kochar in 1959 it depicts the protagonist of the Armenian national epic Daredevils of Sassoun.

Gum Market
The Gumi Shuka or GUM Market is a large indoor market in Yerevan. It is open only between 11 AM and 5 PM. The GUM Market is completely devoted to dried and candied fruits nuts fresh food spices and sujuk.

Lovers Park
Lovers Park is a public park in Yerevan Armenia located on Baghramyan Avenue. It occupies an area of 2.5 hectares in the central Kentron District of the city. The park was entirely renovated between 2005 and 2008 and reopened in November 2008 by the efforts of benefactor Albert Boghossian head of the Boghossian Foundation.

National Gallery of Armenia
The National Gallery of Armenia is the largest art museum in Armenia. Located on Yerevans Republic Square the museum has one of the most prominent locations in the Armenian capital. The NGA houses significant collections of Russian and Western European art and the worlds largest collection of Armenian art. The museum had 65000 visitors in 2005.

Dalan Art Gallery
Founded in 2011 Dalan  Gallery aims at introducing and representing Post - Soviet and Post Independence period contemporary Armenian artists to private collectors Galleries and Museums throughout the world as well as organizing curated solo and group exhibitions of contemporary art in different visual styles.

Yerevan Zoo
The Yerevan Zoo also known as the Zoological Garden of Yerevan is a 35-hectare zoo established in 1940 in Yerevan Armenia.

Lake Parz
Lake Parz is a small lake located in the Dilijan National Park east of Dilijan in Armenia. The lake was formed by natural climatic changes. Parz in Armenian means clear. In 2017 the TransCaucasian Trail was created to connect Parz Lake with the town of Dilijan and in the opposite direction with Gosh Village and Gosh Lake. The trail was created through the building of new trail segment

Garni Gorge
The Garni Gorge is situated 23 km east of Yerevan Armenia just below the village of the same name. On a promontory above the gorge the first-century AD Temple of Garni may be seen. Along the sides of the gorge are cliff walls of well-preserved basalt colu

Noravank Gorge


Holy Trinity Church
Holy Trinity Church is an Armenian Apostolic Church constructed in 2003 in the Malatia-Sebastia District of Yerevan Armenia. It is modeled after the 7th century Zvartnots Cathedral. The construction works of the church planned to be built on the South-Western District of Yerevan started in March 2001

Saint Hovhannes Church


Khor Virab
Khor Virap is an Armenian monastery located in the Ararat Plain in Armenia near the border with Turkey about 8 kilometres south of Artashat Ararat Province within the territory of ancient Artaxata. The monastery was host to a theological seminary and was the residence of Armenian Catholicos.

Vardenyats Pass (Selim Pass)


Vorotnavank
Vorotnavank is a monastic complex located along a ridge overlooking the Vorotan gorge between the villages of Vaghatin and Vorotan in the Syunik Province of Armenia. The complex is surrounded by a high stone wall for defense against foreign invasions and once housed workshops stores a seminary resort cemetery and an alms-house. A pillar stood in the yard of t

Jermuk Waterfall


Shaki Waterfall
Shaki Waterfall is a waterfall in Armenia with a height of 18 m. It is located in Syunik Province. The Shaki Waterfall is situated 6 km from the town of Sisian. On the left side of the river Vorotans gorge basalt lava flows have solidified to form a ledge 18 meters high from which the waterfall cascades down.

Tatev Monastery
Tatev Monastery, famous for medieval Armenian architecture was constructed in the 9th-13th centuries. Tatev collected taxes from hundreds of villages, making it a rich monastery and educational institute. You will have a feeling of Wow when you visit first this 9th century Armenia Apostolic Monastery. This hilltop with amazing view Monastery is located on a large basalt plateau near the Tatev village in Syunik Province in south-eastern Armenia. The monastic ensemble stands on the edge of a deep gorge of the Vorotan River. There is a wonderful story about the architect of Tatev. This one of the oldest and most famous Monastery in Armenia is gifted with spectacular view around it. The monastery is located at the height of 1600 m in the mountains the Tatev Monastery gives you picture perfect view and it is guaranteed that you will never forget this scene in your life time.

Tsaghkadzor Winter Ski Resort
You ride the highest cable car in the world to reach here. Tsakhadzor means the Gorge of Flowers. During the Soviet years it was famous all over the country for its mountain-skiing slopes, healthy climate, thick woods and mineral water springs. The world’s highest Cable car is located here. There are a lot of children's summer camps and rest homes

Noravank Monastery
This architectural beauty of Armenia reflects the treasury of Armenian religious art. Here are the most beautiful cross stones of one of the famous masters - Momik. If you love exploring the old historical structures then Noravank Monastery may surprise you. Noravank is a 13th-century Armenian monastery, located 122 km from Yerevan in a narrow gorge made by the Amaghu River, near the town of Yeghegnadzor, Armenia. The gorge is known for its tall, sheer, brick-red cliffs, directly across from the monastery.

Yerevan Cascades
The Cascade is a giant stairway made of limestone in Yerevan, Armenia. It links the downtown Ketron area of Yerevan with the Monument neighborhood. Designed by architects Jim Torosyan, Aslan Mkhitaryan, and Sargis Gurzadyan the construction of the cascade started in 1971 and was partially completed in 1980. The Cascade is a happening place for both youth and old for a good time. You can enjoy to have a cup of tea, coffee and eating a bite here. You can also enjoy the outdoor concerts here and have a great view of it from up on the Cascade staircase. Many events like Jazz, musical guitar and others take place here. So, not just the day time but night time is also great at the Yerevan Cascade

Matenadaran Museum
The Mesrop Mashtots Institute of Ancient Manuscripts, commonly referred to as the Matenadaran, is a repository of ancient manuscripts, research institute and museum in Yerevan, Armenia. If you are lover of history and the manuscripts then Matenadaran is certainly for you. But if you are not then also you should go there as the museum hosts world’s richest depositories of medieval manuscripts and books covering range of subjects like theology, philosophy, history, medicine, literature, art history and cosmography in Armenian and many other languages. Matendaran is a place with fantastic collection of the artistry work of Pre-press written material

Yerevan Metro
Officially Karen Demirchyan Yerevan Subway, colloquially known as the Yerevan Metro, is a rapid transit system that serves the capital of Armenia, Yerevan. Yerevan metro system started in 1981 and like most old soviet metros it has quite deep stations. Yerevan metro covers approximately 13 km and serves 10 stations. However introduction of new minibus system in Yerevan has caused decline in number of travellers travelling in metro trains

Wings of Tatev - Double Track Cable Car
Wings of Tatev is a 5.7 km cableway between Halidzor and the Tatev monastery in Armenia. The longest double track cable car in the world is 5752m (18,871 ft.) and it is in Armenia. Armenia achieved this in 2010 when this longest cable car was opened and was put in the record books for its length. Construction was finished on 16 October 2010. So far this record is with Armenia only and has not been beaten ye

Khosrov Forest Reserve
Khosrov forest reserve was established in 1958 and  Khosrov is 20 KM from Yerevan located nearby Ararat valley in Ararat province of Armenia also on south of Garni temple. Spread over 23000 hectares of mountain terrain it has over 1900 species of high vascular plants which includes 24 endemic species. Khosrov forest reserve also has over 280 animal species. Local mountains are inhabited by Bezoar goat, Brown bear, Black vulture and Caspian snowcock. History suggests that Khosrov was named after king Khosrov II dduring 4th century. The forest reserve contains variety of landscape. There are semi desert, to mountains along with alpine meadows. 64% makeup for mountain and 16% make up for forest. You can see plenty of animals and birds here

Gnishik Canyon
Canyons may look dead but they if you go deep into them you will find great liveliness in those rocks. Gnishik in Armenia is nature’s delight. First to get to Gnishik village from where you can trek to the canyon it would take around 2 hours drive from Yerevan. Gnishik village, Gnishik river and of course Gnishik canyon. Till you reach the village the journey is quite comfortable as road is good but the journey ahead to the canyon is a challenging one. You have to put your foot forward safely to enjoy the scene.

Old Khndzoresk Cave Village
Khndzoresk is in Syunik, south east of Armenia. The village got its name from the mountain Khor Dzor on which steep slope the village is located. The village is located at 1580m above sea level. The village is famous for taking part in the liberation movement of David Bek. The fortress of Khndzoresk served as a military base for Mkhitar Sparapet in 1728-1730. This beautiful village is famous mainly for its canyon with beautiful rock formations and ancient cave settlements.

Etchmiadzin Cathedral
Echmiadzin is ancient capital of Armenia and is Echmiadzin is the residence of the Supreme Catholicos of all Armenians and the centre of the Armenian Apostolic Church, located in the city of Vagharshapat, Armenia. According to scholars it was the first cathedral built in ancient Armenia, and is considered the oldest cathedral in the world. Every seven years, the rite of blessing of holy chrism is held here; thousands of believers come to Echmiadzin as pilgrims from different parts of the world for this ceremony

Genocide Memorial Complex
Tsitsernakaberd is an official memorial in Yerevan, dedicated to the victims of the Armenian Genocide. Armenia is, unfortunately, known to the world because of the Armenian Genocide. This tragedy happened to the nation by the hands of the Turkish Ottoman Empire in the beginning of the 20th century

Wine Tour in Armenia
Wine Tour Armenia has a rich history of wine making - a home for the world’s oldest and many new wineries. Wine Tour can last for 7 days offering various types of winery experiences, gastronomic tour and trekking combined with village tour where the wine festival is held.
Russia
A country filled with myriad of experiences that are unique and incredible, Russia caters perfectly to the people with varied interests, especially those looking out to take a dip into history and culture. From the colossal fortresses, grand cathedrals lining its wide streets, a chain of glorious old cities like Moscow and ancient gems like St Petersburg to opera centres, trendy bars and restaurants sprinkled amid the Soviet-era architecture, the Russia Tourist Places offer a perfect concoction of the old and the new. Planning a trip to Russia? Here’s a quick look at all the best of Russia Tourist Attractions you should bookmark for your trip. To help you choose from a diverse portfolio of Russia Attractions and Sightseeing, we have filtered out some of the most worthy Places to visit in Russia. Scroll down and discover what interests you! We will help you tick off all the amazing Russia Tourist Destinations and Spots featuring on the top of your bucket list.
Lenins Mausoleum
Lenin's Mausoleum, also known as Lenin's Tomb, situated in Red Square in the centre of Moscow, is a mausoleum that currently serves as the resting place of Soviet leader Vladimir Lenin. His preserved body has been on public display there since shortly after his death in 1924, with rare exceptions in wartime. Lenin’s body has been placed in a glass sarcophagus, and thousands of visitors come here every day to to see it. You can experience this unique way of preserving body by visiting Lenin’s tomb on your Moscow Trip. Mausoleum or the tomb is open for visitors on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday from 10 AM to 1 PM

Saint Basils Cathedral
Saint Basil’s Cathedral is church in the Red Square in Moscow. Popularly known as Saint Basil’s Cathedral, the official name of the building which is a museum now is ‘The Cathedral of the Intersection of the Virgin by the Moat’. There are another names to the Cathedral as well, ‘The Cathedral of Vasily the Blessed is’ or ‘Pokrovsky Cathedral’. Built between 1555 and 1561 this cathedral it was once the tallest building until 1600 when Ivan the Great Bell Tower was completed. The Cathedral was ordered by Ivan the Terrible to mark the 1552 capture of Kazan from Mongol forces and it was completed in 1560. Today Saint Basil’s is located at one end of Red Square, Moscow. This is just across from the Spasskaya tower of the Kremlin. This is not too large and consists of nine chapels built on a single foundation. The color and the shape of this building is such which no other building in the world has come close to match so far. All in all the Saint Basil’s Cathedral is a beautiful work of architectural brilliance. It is one of the best Places to Visit in Moscow.

Red Square
Red Square is one of the oldest and largest squares in Moscow the capital of Russia. Owing to its historical significance and the adjacent historical buildings it is regarded as one of the most famous squares in Europe and the world. It is located in Moscows historic center in the eastern walls of the Kremlin.

Sparrow Hills
Sparrow Hills formerly known as Lenin Hills between 1935 and 1999 is a hill on the right bank of the Moskva River and one of the highest points in Moscow reaching a height of 80 m above the river level.

Metro Victory Park


Moscow State University


Hermitage Museum
The State Hermitage Museum is a museum of art and culture in Saint Petersburg Russia. The second-largest art museum in the world it was founded in 1764 when Empress Catherine the Great acquired an impressive collection of paintings from the Berlin merchant Johann Ernst Gotzkowsky. The museum celebrates the anniversary of its founding each year on 7 December Saint

Russian Academy of Fine Arts Museum


Church of the Savior on Blood
The Church of the Savior on Spilled Blood is a former Russian Orthodox church in Saint Petersburg Russia which currently functions as a secular museum. The structure was constructed between 1883 and 1907. It is one of Saint Petersburgs major attractions.

Smolny Cathedral
The Smolny Cathedral in St. Petersburg is one of the most beautiful churches in Russia. Smolny Cathedral is a part of Smolny Convent or the Smolny Convent of the Resurrection which is located at the Ploschad Rastrelli on the Neva River Bank. This blue and white building is a brilliance and architectural master piece. This master piece is design work of Italian architect Franceso Bartolomeo Rastrelli. He designed and built the cathedral between 1748 and 1764. The church is 93.7 meters tall and there are also four churches around the cathedral. Currently Smolny Cathedral is used primarily as a concert hall. Needless to say it is one of must visit Tourist Places in St. Petersburg.

Bronze Horseman
The Bronze Horseman is an equestrian statue of Peter the Great in the Senate Square in Saint Petersburg Russia. It has opened to the public on 7 August 1782. Commissioned by Catherine the Great it was created by the French sculptor tienne Maurice FalconetThe Bronze Horseman is an equestrian statue of Peter the Great in the Senate Square in Saint Petersburg Russia. It has opened to the public on 7 August 1782. Commissioned by Catherine the Great it was created by the French sculptor tienne Maurice Falconet. The name comes from an 1833 poem of the same name by Aleksander Pushkin which is widely considered one of the most significant works of Russian literature. The statue is now one of the symbols of Saint Petersburg.

Admiralty Building


Saint Isaacs Cathedral
St. Isaac's Cathedral, St. Petersburg, is the largest Russian Orthodox cathedral in the city and is dedicated to Saint Isaac of Dalmatia, a patron saint of Peter the Great, who had been born on the feast day of that saint.

St. Basils Cathedral
The geometric domes and vivid tones of this 16th-century cathedral are almost garish up close but they perfectly complement the solid red brick of the Kremlin wall and the gray cobblestones of Red Square. The church was built to honor the victory over Mongol Tatars in 1555 and legend has it that Ivan the Terrible had its architects eyes poked out to keep him from making anything to rival Mo

Kremlin Hill
Kremlin Hill is one of the seven hills of Moscow. Altitude up to 145 m. The hill is situated in the city centre at the confluence of the Moscow River and Neglinnaya River. The Red Square and the upland part of the Kitai-gorod are located on the hill.

Memorial Museum of Cosmonautics
The Memorial Museum of Cosmonautics is a museum in Moscow Russia dedicated to space exploration. It is located within the base of the Monument to the Conquerors of Space in the north-east of the city. The museum contains a wide variety of Soviet and Russian space-related exhibits and models which explore the history of flight astronomy space exploration space technolog

Arbat St


Peterhof Palace
The Peterhof Palace Russian  IPA is a series of palaces and gardens located in Petergof Saint Petersburg Russia commissioned by Peter the Great as a direct response to the Palace of Versailles by Louis XIV of France. Originally intending it in 1709 for country habitation Peter the Great sought to expand the property as a result of his visit to the French royal court in 1717 inspiring th

The Hermitage Pavilion


Kazan Cathedral Moscow
Kazan Cathedral Russian   formally known as the Cathedral of Our Lady of Kazan is a Russian Orthodox church located on the northeast corner of Red Square in Moscow Russia. The current building is a reconstruction of the original church which was destroyed at the direction of then General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party o

Kazan Kremlin
The Kazan Kremlin is the chief historic citadel of Russia situated in the city of Kazan. It was built at the behest of Ivan the Terrible on the ruins of the former castle of Kazan khans. It was declared a World Heritage Site in 2000.

Tverskaya Street
Tverskaya Street known between 1935 and 1990 as Gorky Street is the main radial street in Moscow. The street runs Northwest from the central Manege Square in the direction of Saint Petersburg and terminates at the Garden Ring giving the name to Tverskoy District. The route continues further as First Tverskaya-Yamskaya Street Leningradsky Avenue and Leningradskoye Hig

Novosibirsk State Art Museum
The Novosibirsk State Art Museum is a museum in Tsentralny City District of Novosibirsk Russia. The building was designed by architect Andrey Kryachkov.

Chapel of St. Nicholas


Cathedral of The Epiphany


Ulan-Ude Ethnographic Museum
The Ulan-Ude Ethnographic Museum is an outdoor museum located in the village Upper Berezovka eight kilometres northeast of Ulan-Ude Buryatia.

Church on the Blood


Trinity Orthodox Vladimir Cathedral


Orthodox Parish of St. Nicholas Church


Church of St. Nicholas


Buryatia Nature Museum


Cathedral of Saint Demetrius


Saint George Cathedral (Church)


Vladimir Suzdal Museum Reserve


Local Museum of Arts


Epiphany Cathedrals Bell Tower


Ipatiev Monastery


Trinity Cathedral


Saviour Church on the City


Les-Chudodey Museum


Cathedral of Christ the Saviour
The Cathedral of Christ the Saviour is a Russian Orthodox cathedral in Moscow Russia on the northern bank of the Moskva River a few hundred metres southwest of the Kremlin. With an overall height of 103 metres it is the third tallest Orthodox Christian church building in the world after the Peoples Salvation Cathedral in Bucharest Romania and Saints Peter and Paul Cathe

Novospassky Monastery
Novospassky Monastery is one of the Russian Orthodox Church fortified monasteries surrounding Moscow from the south-east. The abbey traces its history back to Moscows first monastery established in the early 14th century at the location where the Danilov Monastery now stands. The Church of the Savior in the Wood of the Kremlin was its original katholikon. Upon its removal to t

Kazan Cathedral St. Petersburg
Kazan Cathedral or Kazanskiy Kafedralniy Sobor also known as the Cathedral of Our Lady of Kazan is a cathedral of the Russian Orthodox Church on the Nevsky Prospekt in Saint Petersburg. It is dedicated to Our Lady of Kazan one of the most venerated icons in Russia.

Peter and Paul Cathedral
The Peter and Paul Cathedral is a Russian Orthodox cathedral located inside the Peter and Paul Fortress in St. Petersburg Russia. It is the first and oldest landmark in St. Petersburg built between 1712 and 1733 on Hare Island along the Neva River. Both the cathedral and the fortress were originally built under Peter the Great and designed by Domenico Trezzini. The cathedrals bell to

Saint Isaacs Bridge
Isaakievsky pontoon bridge was the first bridge across Neva river in St.Petersburg by then the capital of Russian Empire. It was first constructed in 1727. Starting from 1732 it was rebuilt each summer for a period 184 years. The bridge was named after th

Church of the Savior on Waters


Moscow Kremlin
The Moscow Kremlin or simply the Kremlin is a fortified complex in the center of Moscow overlooking the Moskva River to the south Saint Basils Cathedral and Red Square to the east and the Alexander Garden to the west. It is the best known of the kremlins and includes five palaces four cathedrals and the enclosing Kremlin Wall with Kremlin towers. In addition within this comple

Triumphal Arch of Moscow
The third and the oldest surviving Triumphal Arch in Moscow was built in 182934 on Tverskaya Zastava Square to Joseph Bovs designs in order to commemorate Russias victory over Napoleon. It replaced an earlier wooden structure built by the veterans of the Napoleonic Wars in 1814.

Sculpture Babr


Znamensky Monastery


Tourist Monument


Holy Cross Cathedral


Triumphal Arch Moscow Gates


Irkutsk Cathedral Mosque


Landfill Museum


Tsaritsyno Park
Tsaritsyno is a palace museum and park reserve in the south of Moscow. It was founded in 1776 by the order of Catherine the Great. The palace has lent its name to the surrounding district and the nearby metro station.

Moskvarium


Moscow Zoo
The Moscow Zoo or Moskovsky Zoopark is a 21.5-hectare zoo founded in 1864 by professor-biologists K.F. Rulje S.A. Usov and A.P. Bogdanov from the Moscow State University. In 1919 the zoo was nationalized. In 1922 the ownership was transferred to the Government of Moscow and has remained under Moscows control ever since.

Komsomoll


Museum of Military Glory


Moscow Paleontological Museum
The Orlov Museum of Paleontology was founded by Paleontological Institute of Russian Academy of Sciencies in 1937 prior to the XVII session of the International Geological Congress. It is named after Yuri Alexandrovich Orlov.

Palace Square
Palace Square connecting Nevsky Prospekt with Palace Bridge leading to Vasilievsky Island is the central city square of St Petersburg and of the former Russian Empire. Many significant events took place there including the Bloody Sunday massacre and parts of the October Revolution of 1917.

Peter and Paul Fortress
The Peter and Paul Fortress is the original citadel of St. Petersburg Russia founded by Peter the Great in 1703 and built to Domenico Trezzinis designs from 1706 to 1740 as a star fortress. Between the first half of the 1700s and early 1920s it served as a prison for political criminals. It has been a museum since 1924.

Winter Palace
The Winter Palace was the official residence of the Russian Emperors from 1732 to 1917. Today the palace and its precincts form the Hermitage Museum. Situated between Palace Embankment and Palace Square in Saint Petersburg adjacent to the site of Peter the Greats original Winter Palace the present and fourth Winter Palace was built and altered almost continuously between th

Cathedral Square Moscow
Cathedral Square or Sobornaya Square is the central square of the Moscow Kremlin where all of its streets used to converge in the 15th century. The square owes its name to the three cathedrals facing it  Cathedral of the Dormition Cathedral of the Archangel and Cathedral of the Annunciation. Cathedral Square is famous as the site of solemn coronation and funeral processions of all the Russian tsars patriarchs and Grand Dukes of Moscow. Even today the square is used in the inauguration ceremony of the President of Russia.

Alyosha Monument Monument of the Defenders of the Soviet Arctic during the Great Patriotic War
Defenders of the Soviet Arctic during the Great Patriotic War commonly called Alyosha is a monument in Murmansk Russia to Soviet soldiers sailors and airmen of World War II.

Lenin Nuclear Icebreaker


Summer Palace
This was one of the first palaces of St. Petersburg where Peter the Great, the first Russian Emperor, spent the summer months. The palace was originally surrounded by water on three sides and marked the beginning of the glorious history of Petersburg palaces. The Summer Palace today gives its visitors a rare opportunity to see life as it was 300 years ago.

Church of Resurrection on Spilled Blood
Church of Resurrection on Spilled Blood, St. Petersburg: The Church of the Savior on Spilled Blood is one of the main sights of St. Petersburg. This Church was built on the site where Emperor Alexander II was fatally wounded in March 1881.

State Hermitage Museum
State Hermitage Museum is a museum of art and culture and is one of the largest and oldest museums in the world since 1764. Its collections comprise over three million items including the largest collection of paintings in the world

St. Petersburg in Winter
Winter in St. Petersburg, Russia is majestic. If you decide to feel the magic in St. Petersburg in winters then you must be extra ready. You would deal with snow covered city, very cold days, extra long and dark nights added with slippery roads. Yes it is cold and dark in winter but it is the best in winter too if you love nature poetry, because city looks best in winter. When you think of visiting St. Petersburg in winter then be ready to be seduced by mesmerising views of frozen lakes, rivers and beautiful snowflakes in the sun. When sunlight falls upon the streets, you probably cannot imagine anything better than this. City gets in party mood so you get to see plenty of plenty of premieres and parties to fill the long dark evenings going at full pace.

White Nights Festival in St. Petersburg
White Nights is basically a period every year in St. Petersburg when nights are bright. White Nights starts in May, when the city finally succumbs to spring and the parks are filled with flowering trees, but mid-June is peak time, as the sun slumps lazily towards the horizon but never fully sets. This festival organised by the Saint Petersburg City Administration, the festival begins in May with the "Stars of the White Nights" at Mariinsky Theatre and ends in July. White Night festival attracts lot of travellers. This festival hosts series of classical ballet, opera and music events which is performed by various Russian dancers, singers and musicians.

Sapsan Russia
Sapsan is Russian high speed electric train which connected Moscow and St. Petersburg in its early years. This high speed trains came into operations in 2009. Initially connecting Moscow and St. Petersburg Sapsan now connects Moscow to Nizhniy Novgorod too. The train takes 3 hours 40 minutes from Moscow to St. Petersburg without an intermediate stop and takes 3 hours 55 minutes from Moscow to Nizhniy Novgorod without an intermediate stop. After all this one must be curious to know the speed of the Train. Well the speed of this profit making train is 250 km/hour at its peak, but it has crossed this speed as well at certain times

Bolshoi Theatre
The Bolshoi Theater in Moscow is one of the world's greatest opera and ballet theaters, and one of Moscow's top visitor attractions. The Bolshoi building, which for many years now has been regarded as one of Moscow's main sights, was opened on 20 October 1856 and rebuilt 2002 onward. The Bolshoi Theatre is a symbol of Russia for all time. It was awarded this honor due to the major contribution it made to the history of the Russian performing arts. Bolshoi still happens to be one of the best places of ballet and opera art in the world. This is still one of the best theaters. Theater has its own proud tradition and unmatched and unforgettable atmosphere. Your Moscow trip is simply incomplete without an evening visit to Bolshoi Theater.

Nikulin Circus
Moscow Circus on Tsvetnoi Boulevard, or Nikulin's Circus, is located on Tsvetnoi Boulevard in the Tverskoy District of central Moscow. It was the only circus in the city between 1926 and 1971, and still remains the most popular one. The first and original building was built and opened in 1880. Nikulinís circus is considered one of the best in the world and rightfully so. Every single act is a perfection. Itís beautiful, artistic, creative, and just amazing. The shows at the Nikulin Circus also have a very theatrical feel to them, with quite a formal atmosphere, a serious approach to circus artistry, and the acts normally connected by a particular theme or narrative thread

The Moscow Kremlin
The Moscow Kremlin, usually referred to as the Kremlin, is a fortified complex at the heart of Moscow, overlooking the Moskva River to the south, Saint Basil's Cathedral and Red Square to the east, and the Alexander Garden to the west. It is the best known of the Kremlins (Russian citadels) and includes five palaces, four cathedrals, and the enclosing Kremlin Wall with Kremlin towers. Also within this complex is the Grand Kremlin Palace. The complex serves as the official residence of the President of the Russian Federation.

Moscow Metro
Moscow is timeless. It is one of the most significance and famous place on the planet. Since decades it has attracted travellers for so many reasons. Moscow metro is also one among them. 195 stations, route length of 325.4 km, mostly undergrounded and with the deepest section 74 metres, underground at the Park Pobedy station, one of the world’s deepest. The first design of the metro was submitted in 1902 but the plans were delayed and finally got approved in 1931. Many of the 195 stations have interesting architecture and design that reflect the time and era they were built in. Moscow metro by all means is not just a transportation system but it carries allot of historical and contemporary elements that any traveller can be mesmerised with. Moscow metro also happens to be the busiest in the world by daily ridership with average of more than 6.5 million and is the sixth longest route in the world.

Moscow River Cruise
River cruise is the most relaxing and picturesque tour that Moscow can offer. Moscow river cruise is a great way to enjoy the view of historic landmarks and its main attractions. This is a perfect alternative to City Tour by car.

Kremlin Suzdal
The Kremlin is the oldest part of the Russian town of Suzdal which dates back to 10th century. It was there before Moscow Kremlin. Inside this Kremlin, the Archbishop’s Chambers houses the Suzdal History Exhibition, which includes a visit to the 18th-century Cross Hall, which was used for receptions. There are more exhibits in the 1635 Kremlin bell tower in the yard. Kremlin has number of churches and house inside of which Nativity of the Virgin Cathedral is one important cathedral.

Wooden Church of St. Nicholas
This wooden church was moved to Suzdal in 1960 from Glotovo and interesting thing about this church is that it is elevated off the ground about a story high from when the church was moved across the country. The church is made of all woods and it represents the beautiful relationship between wood and stone architecture of Russia and the precision of Russians who made this church.

St. John Baptist Church
This church was also made around the same time of wooden church of St. Nicholas. But you can see the mark difference in the architecture of the two. Opposite to Church of St. Nicholas which is made of all woods, St. John Baptist church is made of white plastered walls with wooden supports. This shows how vivid Russian architecture was since old times.

Intercession Convent
The convent was founded in 1364. In its center stands the cathedral of the Intercession; it was an add-on built in 1518. There is no painting in the interior of cathedral or stained glass; it is simply plain white stone walls all around. The church was and still is one of the richest convents in Russia. The convent is the home of many nuns and is also the burial vault for twenty nuns of noble birth. An art museum is connected to the white stoned wall cathedral which you can take a tour of. There are many paintings but none in the cathedral itself. This building is filled with arches and art created in the 16th and 17th century.

Kamchatka Peninsula
The Kamchatka Peninsula is a 1,250-kilometre-long peninsula in the Russian Far East, with an area of about 270,000 km². Kamchatka is 900 miles long and it is closer to Alaska than it is to Moscow. On the eastern tip of Russia, between the Pacific Ocean to the east and sea of Okhotsk to the west, Kamchatka has over 150 volcanoes and 29 out of them are active ones on peninsula. Kamchatka has group of 19 volcanoes known as Volcanoes of Kamchatka which is UNESCO world heritage site. Kamchatka remains snow covered from October to late May. With the presence of both Volcanoes and ice, Kamchatka is also known as “land of fire and ice

Valley of Geysers, Kamchatka Peninsula
Valley of Geysers in Russia is a Geyser field on Kamchatka Peninsula and it has second largest concentration of Geysers in the world. There are approximately 90 Geysers. It is situated in the Russian far east on Kamchatka region mainly on the left bank of quite deepening Geysernaya River. This place is wonderful but difficult to reach. Besides helicopters no other feasible means of travel are available. The place was discovered only less than 100 years ago.

Solovetsky Island, Onega Bay Russia
Solovetsky, an archipelago is located in the Onega Bay of the White Sea Russia. Solovetsky’s identity as an administrative division is as Solovetsky district of Arkhangelsk Oblast, Russia. Solovetsky is a group of Islands and majority of the population of all islands live in Solovetsky which is estimated at 861 inhabitants as of the 2010 census. There are 6 islands and so total area together they cover is 347 square KM. These six islands namely are Bolshoy solovetsky islands, Anzersky islands, Bolshaya Mukasalma, Malaya Mukasalma, Bolshoy Zayatsky and Maly Zayatsky.

Altai Mountains
Russia is a country of water, mountain, forests, snow and much more. Altai is known as Golden Mountains. Altai mountain is a range in Central and East Asia, where Russia, China, Mongolia and Kazakhstan come together. They say pictures tell you all the stories and picture of Altai mountains definitely speak allot. You can hike to the five highest mountains of Altai which are Belukha, Khuiten peak, Monkh Khairkhan, Tsambagarav and Sutai Mountain. Altai is home to diverse fauna as well. And another major attraction here is Lake Kucherla.

Kizhi Island, Republic of Karelia
Kizhi is an island near the geometrical center of the Lake Onega in the Republic of Karelia, Russia. It is elongated from north to south and is about 6 km long, 1 km wide and is about 68 km away from the capital of Karelia, Petrozavodsk. Settlements and churches on the island were known from at least the 15th century. Kizhi since early times used to be stopover place for travellers. Kizhi pogost which is a major attraction of this island today is actually two churches and a bell tower that were built in 18th century. Kizhi island is little different than other islands of Onega lake. Kizhi has weak water flow and shallow and uneven lake bottom with depth of only 2-3 mtrs at major places while the average depth of Onega is 31 mtrs. Today Kizhi Pogost lives on as one of the largest open air museum in Russia.

Sochi
Sochi is often called the unofficial 'Summer Capital' of Russia, or the Black Sea Pearl. It is one of the southernmost places of Russia and 1600kms from Moscow. Located along the Black Sea, Sochi became very popular as a tourist destination especially after 2014 Winter Olympics. Sochi is one of the most multi-ethnic cities in Russia with people of more than 100 ethnic groups living there. Sochi belongs to that tiny part of Russia, which is happily located in the subtropical climatic zone. Sochi has many sightseeing places like Riviera Park, Sochi Art Museum, Museum of Sochi Sport Honour, Sochi Discovery World Aquarium, Sochi Olympic Park

Kazan
With a population of about 1.3 million, a rich history, deep culture and strong economic influence, thus taking the title from Nizhny Novgorod. Kazan has just recently earned the reputation of a sports city. Kazan peacefully blends Muslim and Christian cultures. Kazan has long been a focal point of higher education in Russia. This vibrant city with over 1000 years of history is an excellent travel destination, and the number of tourists visiting is rapidly increasing every year. There are several interesting things to see inside the Kremlin, including Suyumbike Tower, Kul-Sharif Mosque, Annunciation Cathedral, State Hermitage Museum in Kazan, State Museum of the Tatar State etc

Lake Baikal
It is the biggest and deepest freshwater lake in the world, and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It is the planet's deepest (1637m) and oldest lake, as well as its largest body of freshwater, containing over one fifth of the world's supply. The water mass is a key factor to the climate of the lake's banks. Winters are often milder, summers are chillier. Zabaykalsky National Park is very popular among tourists visiting Lake Baikal

Trans Siberian Railway
Trans-Siberian is the longest railway line in the world. It connects Asia and Europe. The Trans-Siberian Railway is often associated with the main transcontinental Russian line that connects hundreds of large and small cities of the European and Asian parts of Russia. At 9259 km cover, it spans a record of seven time zones and takes 8 days to complete the journey. This is only third longest single line service in the world after Moscow – Pyongyang line which runs for 10267 km and Kiev - Vladivostok line which runs for 11085 km. Trans – Siberian railway reaches 3 countries Mongolia, China and North Korea

St. Sophia’s Cathedral, Novgorod
Russia is a country with numerous cathedrals in different parts of the country. Some of them are quite old with lot of historical significance. One of them is cathedral of St. Sophia. Built between 1045 and 1050, this is said to be the oldest church building in Russia. This 1000 years old church has lot of old elements of its own for visitors to see. Cathedral of St. Sophia is a 38 meter high, 5 domed stone building. This 5 domed cathedral had replaced 13 domes wooden church built in 989 and had the importance of being the main temple of the town. The Cathedral of St. Sophia can easily be said to be one of the most important monuments of ancient architecture in Russia.

Volga River Cruise
The Volga river is longest in Europe. It runs through Central Russia before finally merging into Caspian sea. Volga river is considered as national river of Russia as well. The river crosses through 11 big cities of Russia. Volga River Cruise which is quite exciting experience for travellers to begin with. considering the size of Russia one has to spend enough time from 7-10 days for visiting the most places in a single visit. The most popular cruise over here is between Moscow and St. Petersburg which takes from 7-10 days. But you need to add 2-3 days more in each city to see the sights there. Though both the cities are distanced by 650 km only yet the fascinating thing is that cruise passes through 10 different rivers, canals, lake and reservoirs.

Dombay
Dombay is located 65 KM away from Black sea and 65 KM distant from the summit of Elbrus in an absolutely gorgeous place. So Dombay is located in Karachay Cherkess Republic, Russia within Teberda Nature Reserve. Dombay is in its youth as the city was founded in 1921 only. Dombay was given of status of urban type of settlement in 1965. During the time of Soviet Union Dombay was quite famous as a health resort while today Skiers and snowboarders find this place a great place as the infrastructure for Skiing and snowboarding is fully developed apart from natural beauty that surrounds Dombay. Dombay is popularly known as a ski center. Today Domaby attracts lot of tourists because of the facility of Skiing and Hiking trails. One can enjoy paragliding and skating also here. What adds to the attraction of this place is natural beauty of Caucasus Mountains.

Pskov and Pechory City
The ancient and historical Pskov is favourite place among tourists for its fortified riverside Kremlin and Trinity Cathedral. Pskov is as old as the country Russia is. It contains much of its medieval outer town walls and is full of picturesque churches and architectures. At a short distance from Pskov is Pechory which is famed for its monastery. Pechory is a town and the administrative center of Pechorsky District in Pskov Oblast, Russia. Pechory was founded as a posad in the 16th century near the Pskov-Caves Monastery established in 1473 by orthodox priest Jonah. If monastic law permits, enter the spooky burial caves where over 10,000 monks bodies lie in coffins, piled on top of each other in the tunnel walls.

Veliky Novgorod City
Veliky Novgorod, also known as Novgorod the Great, or Novgorod Veliky, or just Novgorod, is one of the most important historic cities in Russia, which serves as the administrative center of Novgorod Oblast. It is situated on the M10 federal highway connecting Moscow and St. Petersburg. Novgorod carries the cultural essence of Russia and so is inscribed on the world heritage list. UNESCO recognized Novgorod as a World Heritage site in 1992. A tourist can enjoy outdoor activities here at Volchov river complex by renting a boat, can play badminton or Russian games ‘Gorodki‘ and can also go for swimming in swimming pools. Shopping Wooden handicrafts and brich-bark paintings can be memorable

Yekaterinburg
Yekaterinburg, also known as Ekaterinburg, is the fourth-largest city in Russia and the administrative centre of Sverdlovsk Oblast, located on the Iset River east of the Ural Mountains, in the middle of the Eurasian continent, at the boundary between Asia and Europe. It is the main cultural and industrial center of the oblast. In 2017, it had an estimated population of 1,488,791. Yekaterinburg has been dubbed the "third capital of Russia", as it is ranked third by the size of economy, culture, transportation and tourism. It is located about 1,420 kilometres to the east of Moscow. One can experience two different continent and enjoy many things in two different parts of the world. Apart from Yekaterinburg churches, Yekaterinburg museums, mansions and manors together with Yekaterinburg monuments can be of great interest for tourists

Petropavlovsk--Kamchatsky City
Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky is a city and the administrative, industrial, scientific, and cultural center of Kamchatka Krai, Russia. Pertopavlovsk – Kamchatsky lies on the far east land of Russia on the Kamchatka peninsula. This is the most eastern town in the northern hemisphere and the population here is more than 1,80,000. The city sits on high hills and volcanoes surrounds the city as well. From any place you look here a great landscape is right there and you would love to capture it in your camera. And the city has gone on to develop a good infrastructure for tourism. So many activities one can choose here to enjoy the day. Bear hunting, paragliding, volcano hiking, sailing and kayaking to fishing all you can do to make your trip a super hit.

Vladivostok
Vladivostok is a major Pacific port city in Russia overlooking Golden Horn Bay, near the borders with China and North Korea. It's known as a terminus of the Trans-Siberian Railway, which links the city to Moscow in a 7-day journey. In the city center is Central Square, where a towering memorial pays tribute to local soldiers who fought Japanese forces in the early 20th century. Many tourists come to this place either at the beginning or at the end of their trip on Trans-Siberian. This far east city is a dream destination for travellers. The best attraction for viewing here is the Eagle’s nest hill which is also city centre’s highest point. If you are foodie then you will love this place big time. You can get variety of sea foods and because this place is near to Russia-China border you will get Chinese food in abundance here as well. The beautiful oak woods surrounds the city which can be a starting point for a weekend bus tour to the winter ski-slopes or water-falls in summer. There are some beautiful lotus lakes as well and the flowers blossom in August, so you can enjoy those as well while camping. The way to reach to Vladivostok is again by air from Moscow or of course the city is on eastern terminus of Trans Siberian route as well

Ruskeala, Republic of Karelia
Karelia is known as one of the most beautiful place in Russia. Karelia is a place famous for Ladoga lake and Ruskeala which attracts most of the tourists here. With lakes, waterfalls and trees growing on giant rocks, Karelia is a place of utmost natural beauty. Ruskeala mountain park is one of the major attraction here. The first thing that will catch your attention when you enter Ruskeala is Ahvenkoski waterfall, a great natural sight. Little away from Ahvenkoski waterfall is another beautiful waterfall called Ryymakoski. And the best part of Ruskeala is the mountain marble canyon which was turned into tourist attraction in 2005

Stolby Nature Reserve, Krasnoyarsk
Krasnoyarsk Stolby Nature Reserve is located on the southern bank of the Yenisei River, bordering the city of Krasnoyarsk, in Russia. The rocks and cliffs of Stolby are picturesque and you would love to see them for as long as possible. Their shapes and forms are literally majestic. And yes height is another attractive element. Smallest cliffs are 55 metres high and the tallest one goes up to 600 metres. Known for its dramatic complexes of rocks some part of the reserve is open for hikers who want to climb and see the rocks as well. The place is so popular that almost 2,00,000 tourists are recorded visiting this place per year. Those interested in exploring flora and fauna of the place can go for guided tours offered by Stolby nature reserve

Virgin Komi Forests
Virgin Komi Forest covers huge area, as big as 3.28 million ha of tundra and mountain tundra in the Urals. The forest belongs to Ural mountain and is the largest virgin forest in Europe. The “Virgin Komi Forests” was the first Russian natural site to be listed as World Heritage site. More than 40 mammals, 204 bird species, 16 fish species can be found here. Virgin Komi Forests are rich in natural monuments with different and sometimes unusual shape. It is a must see place when you travel to European part of Russia.

Volcanoes of Kamchatka
Kamchatka in Russia is one of the most volcanically active volcanic places on earth, only after Iceland and Hawaii. 29 active volcanoes are there which are included in 6 six UNESCO World heritage site sites in the Volcanoes of Kamchatka group. However The most active volcanoes on Kamchatka are Klyuchevsky, Shiveluch, Karymsky and Bezymianny. The volcano has not caused any death out of eruption which makes it not a threat. The three most beautiful volcanoes in Kamchatka are Kluchevskoy, Koryaksky and Kronotsky

Lena Pillars Nature Park
Lena pillar is an amazing natural rock formation in far eastern Siberia along the bank of Lena river. These naturally made pillars are between 500-1000 feet high and was listed as world heritage site in 2012. You can go boating to the site in less than a day from the city of Yakutsk, the capital of the autonomous Sakha Republic. Those interested in ecotourism, and those who visit Lake Baikal, can coordinate a river ride with the aid of a guide from the Lake Baikal region.
Azerbaijan
Once an undiscovered treasure of the Caucasus region, straddled between Europe and Asia, the country of Azerbaijan has now prominently pinned itself on the tourist map. Due to its particular geographic location and a connection to deep and intriguing history, Azerbaijan is an authentic blend of the East and West, the modern and the ancient. While the major Azerbaijan attractions like the mud volcano, flaming mountains and the Flame Towers have earned the country a title of “Land of Fire”, on the other hand, the grand palaces, ancient mosques, plush seaside resorts and a skyline dotted with modern towers have made Azerbaijan a worth-visiting destination for the curious travellers. For the past few years now, the Azerbaijan tourist attractions have been witnessing a sudden spike in traveller’s interest; thanks to all the glory of Baku, the hyper-modern capital city which has managed to keep all its ancient sites preserved (including the old walled city of Icheri Seher) while chugging fast forward towards modernity. Whether you are heading out to see the famed Flame Towers or Heydar Aliyev Center or just strolling through spice lanes at Teze Bazaar, shopping at the luxury brand stores or visiting the Museum of Contemporary art, you will be amazed by the wide portfolio of Places to visit in Baku. If you are planning to go outside the main touristic trail, you’ll be amazed to see that there are several other Places to visit in Azerbaijan waiting to be discovered by the visitors. Dare to step out of your comfort zone and visit Azerbaijan; you’ll be surprised to see how truly incredible the country is. If you are planning a tour anytime soon, read along to scribble down some of the handpicked Azerbaijan Tourist Places including the best of Baku attractions that are sure to make your trip worth every minute of travelling!
Philharmonic Fountain Park


Baku Ferris Wheel
Baku Ferris Wheel also known as the Baku Eye and Devils Wheel is a ferris wheel on Baku Boulevard in the Seaside National Park of Baku capital of Azerbaijan.The wheel was built by the Dutch company Dutch Wheels. It was opened 10 March 2014 by Azerbaijani president Ilham Aliyev and opened to the public two days later.

Ateshgah - Fire Temple


Maiden Tower
The Maiden Tower is a 12th-century monument in the Old City Baku Azerbaijan. Along with the Shirvanshahs Palace dated to the 15th century it forms a group of historic monuments listed in 2001 under the UNESCO World Heritage List of Historical Monuments as cultural property Category III. It is one of Azerbaijans most distinctive national emblems and is thus featured on Azeri currency n

Tufandag Mountain Resort
GABALA CABLE  CAR (Tufandag) is  a  highlight  of  the city. Divided  into  three  parts  you  can have  an  enjoyable  experience  with  really nice  views  of  the  city. The  cable  car  goes up  to 1600-1900 meters. Gabala  is 227 km far  from  Baku  it  takes  3 hours  to  reach in  this  land.  Cable  car  takes  you  to  the top  of  the  mountain  and  have  the chance  to  see  the  beautiful  Gabala  from top. The one at Tufandag just 4 kilometres from Gabala city centre offers 12 kilometres of slopes with a mix of challenging reds and blacks for experts and easy options for beginners. The slopes are kitted out with state-of-the-art snow guns and accessed by a network of cable cars which offer gorgeous views of the Caucasus Mountains. Theres also an a ski school and a range of accommodation options including several luxury and upper-mid level hotels. In summer visitors can enjoy plenty of outdoor adventures from hiking and cycling to paragliding and jeep tours.

Palace of the Shirvanshahs
The Palace of the Shirvanshahs is a 15th-century palace built by the Shirvanshahs and described by UNESCO as one of the pearls of Azerbaijans architecture. It is located in the Inner City of Baku Azerbaijan and together with the Maiden Tower forms an ensemble of historic monuments inscribed under the UNESCO World Heritage List of Historical Monuments. The complex co

National Flag Square
National Flag Square is a large city square off Neftchiler Avenue in Bayil Baku Azerbaijan. A flag measuring 70 by 35 metres flies on a pole 162 m high. The flagpole was confirmed as the worlds tallest by the Guinness Book of Records but was soon overtaken by the 165 m Dushanbe Flagpole in Tajikistan. Both flagpoles were built by the same American affiliated company Trident Sup

Yeddi Gumbaz Mausoleum
Yeddi Gumbaz Mausoleum  is a cemetery located 15 km south to amax where three mausoleums from Yeddi Gumbaz group are still saved. Other mausoleums of the group are partly destroyed and are without cupola or walls. The mausoleum belongs to the beginning of the 18th century. This architectural monument was built for a family of Mustafa khan  the last khan of Shama

Yanar Dag
Burning Mountains or ‘Yanar Dag’ is located in Baku on a hillside on the Absheron Peninsula on the Caspian Sea. It is a natural gas fire which blazes continuously on a hillside on the Absheron Peninsula on the Caspian Sea 25 KM northeast of the Baku city. The flames from the Yanardag jet out at least 3 meters into the air from a thin porous sandstone layer. The atmosphere is filled with the smell of gas as the fire never extinguishes. Local people come to take curative baths in these streams. Yanardag is 116 meter hill located on the top of natural gas pocket causing continuous flame eruption. This is the nature of this burning mountain. The reason given for continuous eruption of flames is that hydrocarbon gases are emanating from below the earth’s surface which causes the fire. From the sides Yanardag offers spectacular view for the spectators especially at nights.

Shamakhi
Shamakhi is the ancient capital of the Shamakhi Rayon of Azerbaijan.The city has a rich heritage and has provided the backdrop tomajor political events throughout much of its two millennia ofexistence. The citys estimated population as of 2010 was 31704.

Juma Mosque of Shamakhi
Juma Mosque of Shamakhi or Juma Mosque of Shamakhi is a mosque in the city of Shamakhi Azerbaijan.

Nizami Street
It is a large pedestrian and shopping street in downtown Baku, Azerbaijan, named after classical poet Nizami Ganjavi. The street runs through the city's downtown from west to east. It begins from Abdulla Shaig Street, in mountainous part of the city and ends at railroad bed on Sabit Orujov Street, near a monument to Shah Ismail Khatai in “Black City”. Total length of the street is 3,538 m

Baku Boulevard
Baku Boulevard is a promenade established in 1909 which runs parallel to Bakus seafront. Its history goes back more than 100 years to a time when Baku oil barons built their mansions along the Caspian shore and when the seafront was artificially built up inch by inch.

Ateshgah of Baku
The Baku Ateshgah often called the Fire Temple of Baku is a castle-like religious temple in Surakhani town a suburb in Baku Azerbaijan.

Dalga Beach Aquapark Resort


Nohur Lake
Nohur Lake is a perfect place for those who love to bask in the sun under a nature’s magic. It is one of the best places to visit in Baku, Azerbaijan. Nohur Lake is located in Qabala district, which is a popular travel destination. Qabala district has some great attractions other than Nohur Lake but all the nature lovers find the lake the best place to be. Qabala is a popular travel destination and in Qabala those looking for some warm winter sun and crisp blue sky days can enjoy the day at Nohur Lake. When you reach Nohur Lake you can see beautiful mountains opening up in front of you. Though Nohur Lake is not nature’s creation but it is quite beautiful and nothing short of a natural lake.

Gabala Shooting Club
Gabala Shooting Club a favorite place for active leisure fans is an ideal place to hold large-scale sports competitions. The Grand Prix of the International Shooting named after Heydar Aliyev has been held here in 2014 and 2016 years. All the necessary conditions have been provided for the convenience of both guests and athletes at the complex. Cottages have been built here for guests who want to spend the night at the complex. Gabala Shooting Club is a part of the Gabala Sport Club a world-class facility that prepares the athletes for the national teams of Azerbaijan in shooting boxing karate taekwondo soccer and judo. The reason behind building the club was to develop a multi-purpose and world-class shooting facility in Azerbaijan that can serve both as a recreational and entertainment center and as a training place for the national shooting team and international professionals as well as to promote the shooting as a sport in national level. Gabala Shooting Club where the tourists and professional athletes can have a rest and train shooting skills can test eight sporting ranges five combined ranges for stand shooting three rifle halls and an archery shooting pitch.There are also ranges for night shooting paintball and strikeball.

Gabaland


Heydar Aliyev Centre
Heydar Aliyev Cultural Center, awarded as the ‘Design of the Year’ in 2014, termed as one of the symbols of modern Baku. The cultural centre includes an auditorium, museum, exhibition halls and administrative offices. Developed in 2007 by architect Zaha Hadid, the opening took place in 2012. You have heard or seen some amazing architectures of the modern time in the world. Heydar Aliyev Center beats them all probably. This is a building with curves. There is no column in the building. It is flowing and has mainly three distinctively different pieces under one roof. One is the conference hall or auditorium; two is a gallery hall and third is a museum. You can simply flow from one part to the other from inside the center enjoying each section of it

Flame Towers
You must see Flame Towers in Baku, the tallest skyscraper in Azerbaijan with a height of 620 ft. These are 3 buildings; south, east and west. There are apartments, offices and hotels in Flame towers. The facades of the three Flame Towers are turned into gigantic display screens with the use of more than 10,000 high-power LED luminaries. The Illumination of Flame Towers designed is considered one of the best in the world. The Flame Towers are completely covered with the LED screens that display the movement of a fire visible from the farthest points of the city

Sheki
Sheki is a city in northwestern Azerbaijan in the rayon of the same name. Sheki is in northern Azerbaijan on the southern part of the Greater Caucasus mountain range 325 km from Baku. The population is 63000.

Khinalug
Khinalug, Khinalugh, or Khinalig is an ancient Caucasian village going back to the Caucasian Albanian period. It is located high up in the mountains of Quba Rayon, Azerbaijan. Khinalug is a picturesque mountain pass at an altitude of 2,000m. Enjoy breathtaking views of the landscape.People have been continuously living in Khinalug for more than 5,000 year

Bibi-Heybat Mosque
The Bibi-Heybat Mosque is a historical mosque in Baku Azerbaijan. The existing structure built in the 1990s is a recreation of the mosque with the same name built in the 13th century by Shirvanshah Farrukhzad II Ibn Ahsitan II which was completely destroyed by the Bolsheviks in 1936.

Alley of Honor
The Alley of Honor is a public cemetery and memorial in Baku Azerbaijan. The Alley includes burials of famed Azerbaijanis and Azerbaijan-affiliated expatriates including several Presidents scientists and artists. There are 242 burials in total.

Heydar Aliyev Center
The Heydar Aliyev Center is a 57500 m building complex in Baku Azerbaijan designed by Iraqi-British architect Zaha Hadid and noted for its distinctive architecture and flowing curved style that eschews sharp angles. The center is named after Heydar Aliyev the first secretary of Soviet Azerbaijan from 1969 to 1982 and president of Azerbaijan Republic from October 1993 to October 2

Fountains Square Baku
Fountains Square is a public square in downtown Baku capital of Azerbaijan. The square was previously called Parapet and is often referenced to by the same name now. The name of the fountains square derives from the presence of dozens of fountains throughout the square first constructed during Soviet rule of Azerbaijan.

Baku Zoological Park
Baku zoo is a state zoological park in Baku. It is the oldest zoo in Azerbaijan and was opened in 1928. It belongs to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Azerbaijan and to the Mayoralty of Baku city. The total area of the zoo is 4.25 hectares (10.5 acres).

Stone Chronicle Museum
Stone Chronicle Museum is a museum dedicated to the history of stone plastics in Azerbaijan. Many types of stone plastic are exhibited in the museum. The Stone Chronicle Museum located on the National Flag Square was created by the Heydar Aliyev FoundaStone Chronicle Museum is a museum dedicated to the history of stone plastics in Azerbaijan. Many types of stone plastic are exhibited in the museum. The Stone Chronicle Museum located on the National Flag Square was created by the Heydar Aliyev Foundation. The most archaic features of moral life in Azerbaijan were found in plastic stone traditions.

Juma Mosque
Juma Mosque of Shamakhi is a mosque in the city of Shamakhi Azerbaijan. Construction date of the mosque- 743-744 relies on research of a geological commission coming from Tiflis which was led by prince Shahgulu Qajar. This date was defined with Arabic ligature on the facade of the Juma Mosque stating the year 126 according to Islamic calendar as the establishment year. Just in this period the construction of new religious buildings  mosques  was begun in the territory of Azerbaijan. Historical appearance of ancient Islamic architectural monuments was related to Arabs governance and spreading of Islam in the territory of Azerbaijan. Juma Mosque of Shamakhi is considered the first mosque in the Caucasus after cathedral Juma Mosque of Derbent which was constructed in 734. The construction date of the mosque is dated from the governance period of Caliphates vicar in the Caucasus and Dagestan Arabic commander Maslam ibn Abd-al Melik brother of Umayyad caliph Valil I (705-715) by whom Shamakhi was chosen as the residence. In these years Arab governors strengthening towers of this ancient city with the rich cultural heritage began the construction of new structures in its territory. Arabs attached the great importance to Shamakhi which is visible from the great architectural appearance of Juma Mosque.

Heydar Mosque
Heydar Mosque is an Azerbaijani mosque named after the former President of Azerbaijan Heydar Aliyev located in the Binqdi raion of Baku. The opening ceremony of the mosque was held on 26 December 2014. The mosque covers a total area of 12000 m2 and the internal area of the building covers a total area of 4200 square meters. Verses from The Quran are written on the side of the mosques domes.

National Museum of History of Azerbaijan
The National Museum of History of Azerbaijan is the largest museum in Azerbaijan located in Baku in the former mansion of Azerbaijani oil magnate and philanthropist Haji Zeynalabdin Taghiyev. It was founded in 1920 and opened to visitors in 1921.

Mardakan Castle
The Quadrangular Mardakan Fortress or the Great Mardakan Castle is a historical and architectural monument located in the Mardakan settlement of the Khazar district in Baku. It is included by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Azerbaijan in the list of monuments of world importance.

Heydar Aliyev Monument


Nasimi Monument
Nasimi monument is a Historical landmark located at S. Vurghun Street in Sumgait city 2003. This statue is of Nasimi the genius poet and thinker of Azerbaijan. His lyrical style and elegant divan work made him very popular among the people but the Muslim scholars of that time declared him a heretic. This is a beautiful statue erected in the midst of a shopping street.

Park Bulvar
Park Bulvar is a multi-story shopping mall located on Baku Boulevard downtown Baku Azerbaijan. The mall is located less than a mile away from Sahil Metro station of Baku Subway and Government House of Baku. It consists of six floors including two underground floors.

Baku TV Tower
The Baku TV Tower built in 1996 is a free-standing concrete telecommunications tower in Baku Azerbaijan. With a height of 310 meters it is the tallest structure in Azerbaijan and the tallest reinforced concrete building in the Caucasus. The Baku TV Tower built in 1996 is a free-standing concrete telecommunications tower in Baku Azerbaijan. With a height of 310 meters it is the tallest structure in Azerbaijan and the tallest reinforced concrete building in the Caucasus.

Old City Baku
Old City or Inner City is the historical core of Baku the capital of Azerbaijan. The Old City is the most ancient part of Baku which is surrounded by walls. In 2007 the Old City had a population of about 3000 people. In December 2000 the Old City of Baku including the Palace of the Shirvanshahs and Maiden Tower became the first location in Azerbaijan to be classified as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Azerbaijan Carpet Museum
Azerbaijan National Carpet Museum is a museum located in Baku that displays Azerbaijani carpets and rugs with historical and modern weaving techniques and materials. It has the largest collection of Azerbaijani carpets in the world.

Baku Funicular
Baku Funicular is a funicular system in Baku Azerbaijan. It connects a square on Neftchilar Avenue and Martyrs Lane. It is the first and remains the only funicular system in the country. The funicular was constructed at the initiative of Alish Lambaranski. It was opened in 1960. Tofig Ismayilov has been the director of the funicular since 2006. Funicular has 11 Personnel. In Soviet times it used coaches made in Kharkiv.

Baku Zoo
Baku Zoo is a state zoological park in Baku Azerbaijan. Opened in 1928 it is the oldest zoo in Azerbaijan. It belongs to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Azerbaijan and to the Mayoralty of Baku City. The total area of the zoo is 4.25 hectares.

Independence Museum of Azerbaijan
The Independence Museum of Azerbaijan or Istiqlal Museum  is a museum established on 7 December 1919 in Baku  the capital of the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic. H. Mirzajamalov and I. M. Aghaoglu had a great role in the creation of the museum.

Bibi Heybat Mosque
Bibi-Heybat Mosque is a historical Mosque in Baku, Azerbaijan. It is also known as Mosque of Fatima locally. This is one of the prominent Islamic architecture in the country. Today it is considered as spiritual place for Muslims. The current structure of the mosque was built in 1990s which is a recreation of the mosque with the same name which was built in 13th century. Modern architecture of the mosque is a classic example of Shirvan architectural school. In the present state, the Bibi Heybat mosque has three domes, which have kept the traditional corrugated galvanised iron shape of the old mosque and two minarets.

Old City or Inner City
Old City or Inner City is the historical core of Baku. In 2007, the Old City had a population of about 3000 people. In December 2000, the Old City of Baku, including the Palace of the Shirvanshahs and Maiden Tower, became the first location in Azerbaijan to be classified as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. The Old City once used to be the main gate of the city. Now Baku was divided into two sections, Ichari Shahar (Inner city) and Bayir Shahar (outer city). The Inner City was the main part though.

Memory Alley “Shehidler Khiyabany”, Baku
This is a memorial park dedicated to the fallen soldiers and civilians who lost their lives in the Russian Civilian War in 1918, Soviet Union’s violent crackdown on Baku in 1990, and the Nagorno-Karabakh War. Soak in panoramic views of Baku from the park. Thereafter, enjoy a walking tour which will help you to get acquainted with the history and architecture of the city

Fountain Square
Fountains Square is a public square in downtown Baku, capital of Azerbaijan. The square was previously called Parapet and is often referred to by the same name now. The name of the Fountains Square derives from the presence of dozens of fountains throughout. The square is a public gathering place, especially after business hours and during the weekend. It is an attractive tourist destination with many boutiques, restaurants, shops, hotels and passages. It starts from the Istiglaliyyat Street and walls of the Icheri Sheher and stretches through Nizami Street, also called in popular culture as the Torgovaya street running parallel to Baku Boulevard. The Fountains Square is a location where the city authorities hold many public festivals, shows and celebrations

Nizami Ganjavi Monument
The Monument to Nizami Ganjavi, a medieval Persian poet, is located in Baku in Nizami Square, on the intersection of Istiglaliyyat, Ahmad Javad, Azerbaijan and Islam Safarli streets. The monument is a 6 metered bronze statue installed on 9 metered octahedral pedestal. The pedestal is of red Labrador, and elements of Azerbaijani architecture of Nizami’s epoch. There is an ornamental carving and faced bronze plates on the lower part of the monument. 7 plates feature scenes from Nizami's works, and one plate displays a memorial inscription

Rasulzade Streets
Istiglaliyyat Street is an arterial road in the central uptown part of Baku, Azerbaijan. It begins at Gulustan Palace, located on the southern hillside part of Baku, and continues north, then northeast, terminating at the intersection of Aziz Aliyev and Mammad Amin Rasulzade Streets at the edge of Fountains Square

Baku City Karting Centre
Baku City Karting Centre has been opened in the Aquatics Palace with the support of Baku City Circuit Operations Company and Azerbaijan Automobile Federation. The main purpose of establishing this centre is the development and promotion of auto sport culture in Azerbaijan and training local drivers for the future Formula 1 races.

Little Venice
Little Venice - In 1960, at the very edge of the Baku Boulevard, the city authorities built an amazing complex of canals and islands and called it as ‘Venice of Baku.’ The whole territory, where three islands and several islets with trees are comfortably spread out, occupies an area of 10 thousand square meters. Little Venice is possibly the most romantic part in the city. Back in 60s the mayor of Baku Alish Lambaranski who was inspired by his trip to Venice in Italy, decided to create similar experience in Baku. The redevelopment of this Little Venetian town recently saw the expansion of the existing channels. Additional bridges and two beautiful restaurants were made which will add to your experience big time. One restaurant offers Western cuisine and the other one offers Eastern cuisine. You must enjoy boat ride here

Monument to Richard Sorge
Richard Sorge was the hero of Soviet Union military intelligence . He is known as real James Bond of current time. Working as under cover before and during second world war he is most known for his service in Japan in 1940 and 1941, when he provided information about Adolf Hitler’s plan to attack the Soviet Union, although he did not succeed in finding out the exact date of the attack. He was awarded the title of Hero of the Soviet Union in 1964. You must see the Monument to Richard Sorge, the great detective and explore his stories in Baku

Mud Volcanoes
Azerbaijan is known in the first place for mud volcanoes in the world. These volcanoes spread through Azerbaijan and local people call them “Yanardagh” (burning mountain), “gaynacha” (boiling water) and “bozdag” (grey mountain) alongside its geographical name - mud volcanoes. Eight islands in the Baku Archipelago are mud volcanoes by origination. Biggest of these volcanoes in Azerbaijan has got names in the Guinness World Records in 2004

Hammams in Baku
If you feel cold, tired, lost or a dip in your enthuse in Baku, it is time to go to Hammam. The Hammam tradition in Baku is quite interesting. In old times Hammams used to be mainly a place for entertainment in the city. People with their family and friends used to gather here to relax in the warm atmosphere. Taking bath at Hammam was a tradition, but people went to Hammam of their own mohalla only. From single domed structure to more grand dome structured Hammams were there in Baku. Weekly visits to Hammams which was known as haftahamam was obligatory for all the members of the family. Despite the fact that, the tradition of Hammam went out of the date with time with all the comfortable bathrooms in each houses, traditional Hammams continue to exist and operate in Baku.

Pink Lake
Azerbaijan is a beautiful country full of natural beauty. The country is gaining popularity as one of the best travel destinations in the world in recent times. And Pink Lake is one of such beautiful places in Azerbaijan that attracts many visitors. The Lake is said to be only among 8 Pink Lakes in the world. This makes the lake unique. The name of the lake however is Masazir Lake or as the locals says Masazigol. This is located near Baku, Azerbaijan. So when you are travelling Baku you should visit Pink Lake here. The lake is salty with overall area coverage of 10 Sq. KM. The lake produces salt every year and since 1813 salt is taken from the lake

AF Mall
AF Mall is one of the most popular shopping centres in town with shops ranging from high street fashion brands to posh boutiques. It is located in the heart of the city just off the Torgovaya on Samed Vurgun St 34. This brand new mall has many trendy shops, summer lounge with tropic garden and pool on rooftop opening by the end of 2011.

Park Bulvar Shopping Mall
Park Bulvar is a multi-storey shopping mall located on Baku Boulevard, downtown Baku, Azerbaijan. The mall is located 5 minutes of walking distance from Sahil Metro station of Baku Subway and Government House of Baku. The building has all architectural attributes of the East and modern art of the West. This brand new mall has many trendy shops, a cinema, a planetarium, a bowling alley and many cozy cafes. There are many famous fast food chains located there, such as KFC and Sbarro.

Caravanserai
Caravanserai literally means “palace for caravans” or “palace on a trade route”. In the Middle East and Central Asia it was often a place of rest, located in unpopulated areas, to house animals and people. All caravanserais were divided into two types: open and closed. Closed caravanserais were small fortresses to repel the attack in case of danger. They were one or two storey buildings, surrounded by fortified walls. Inside, there were warehouses, stables and corrals for animals, as well as living premises. Open caravanserais were typical for cities. They were more like hotels with stables and corrals for animals. In addition there were teahouses, bathhouses, and many other buildings and facilities for travelers.

Petro Glyphs Museum in Gobustan National Park
The Petroglyph Museum is a museum in Gobustan, Azerbaijan. Gobustan National Park (Azerbaijani: Qobustan Milli Parki) officially Gobustan Rock Art Cultural Landscape is a hill and mountain site occupying the southeast end of the Greater Caucasus mountain ridge in Azerbaijan, mainly in the basin of Jeyrankechmaz River, between the rivers Pirsagat and Sumgait. It is located west of the settlement of Gobustan, about 40 miles (64 km) southwest of the centre of Baku on the west bank of the Caspian Sea.

Guba - Sakina Khanum Mosque
The mosque was built in 1840-1854 at the behest of Sakina Khanum, the wife of Abbasgulu Aga Bakikhanov, in order to perpetuate the memory of her husband. The nine-dome mosque building is 27 meters high. It was built of burnt red bricks and resembles a faceted cylinder. It is said that the mosque was built without the use of cement, and chicken eggs were used as a binding element. In 1993, the mosque was restored and returned to believers

Gabala City
Gabala, two-thousand-year old the most ancient city of Azerbaijan, was for 600 years the capital of ancient Caucasian Albania. At first Gabala was a part of Shirvanshahs state and later Sheki khanate. The modern Gabala is located in Sheki - Zakatala area practically on the border of Dagestan and Georgia

Qala
Qala is a settlement and municipality in Baku, Azerbaijan. Qala has an open air Archeological and Ethnographic Museum. You can also find some camels, sheep and rabbits in the Museum. Next to it is a new build fortress from which you have a nice view of the city

Shahdag Mountain Resort
Shahdag Mountain Resort Complex was open to the public in 2012. It is located in the Azerbaijan's Greater Caucasus range, the site is located near Shahdag National Park, which is known for having an intact ecological system and an untouched flora and fauna. It is the first and largest ski resort in Azerbaijan
Uzbekistan
A country where the glorious architecture, spectacular nature, gastronomical delights along with ancient traditions and unique heritage blend together and where the sun shines and smiles all year round- Uzbekistan is Central Asia's most remarkable gem. While you are here, travelling to timeless mosques, exploring the Silk Road cities and strolling through their bazaars feel like travelling back in time. From the very first visit, you’ll be awed by the magnificence of Uzbekistan attractions that evoke extraordinary feelings eventually prompting us to come here, time and again.    Each of Uzbekistan tourist attractions attracts with its features. From the numerous places to visit in Uzbekistan, the UNESCO listed historical cities of Samarkand, Bukhara and Khiva always take the upper hand. You can see the marvels preserved from the echoes of bygone eras in the many mausoleums here and continuing your journey towards the south, Surkhandarya will bring you closer to the mountain gorges and country’s natural beauty. But what drags the travellers here from far and wide is the capital city Tashkent. The places to visit in Tashkent boast both the best of modern and Soviet-era architecture, museums and noteworthy mosques and also the famous Chorsu Bazaar which is the city’s showstopper.  Wondering what are the best places to visit in Uzbekistan or the top Tashkent tourist attractions? Looking for off-beaten experiences or the most impressive spectacles in the country? Well, we have got all your preferences covered! Take a look at the compiled list below that consists of the best Uzbekistan Tourist Places and Spots worth visiting at least once in a lifetime.
Tashkent Tower
The Tashkent Television Tower is a 375-metre-high tower located in Tashkent Uzbekistan and is the 12th tallest tower in the world. Construction started in 1978 and it began operation 6 years later on 15 January 1985. It was the 4th tallest tower in the world from 1985 to 1991. Moreover the decision of construction Tashkent Tower or TV-Tower of Uzbekistan was decided in 19

State Museum of History of Uzbekistan
The State Museum of History of Uzbekistan, previously known as the National Museum of Turkestan, was founded in 1876. It is located in Tashkent. Formerly known as the Lenin Museum, the History Museum of Uzbekistan has since been renovated and more exhibits have been added

Museum of Arts of Uzbekistan
The Museum of Arts of Uzbekistan is the largest state art museum in Uzbekistan. Its permanent collection contains more than several thousands works divided among four curatorial departments. The museum was established in 1918 as a Museum of People University and renamed as a Central Arts Museum later. It was named as Tashkent Art Museum in 1924 and fin

Minor Mosque
Huge modern mosque with traditional marble features, towering minarets & a turquoise dome.

Independence Square
Independence Square is a central square of Tashkent Uzbekistan. After the proclamation of Uzbekistans independence in September 1991 Lenin Square was renamed in 1992 as Mustaqillik Maydoni which translates to Independence Square in English. On the opposite sits a statue depicting a mourning mother sadly looking down onto an eternal flame in memory of her children who fell when defending the country to commemorate the fallen unidentified soldiers in the past World Wars.

Tashkent Broadway


Amir Timur Museum
Amir Timur Museum in Tashkent was opened in 1996 in the memory of Mongol warlord, Amir Timur. The blue cupola museum resembles Gur-i Amir mausoleum in Samarkand, built on the traditions of medieval architectural but fulfils modern requirements also.The history of this square goes back to 19th century and the square was a small park in the center of Tashkent city surrounded by buildings of gymnasium for both men and women along with schools and bank. Amir Temur, an outstanding commander and statesman from 14th century is represented through a monument right in the center of the square. So this Monument of Amir Temur in the center of the square is made of bronze figure of Amir temur with imperial regalia on a reared horse. Around this monument earlier there was a small park but after reconstruction in 2009 now there is a small area with fountains and greenery. You should visit this museum also as there are more than 5000 artifacts in the museum along with over 2000 objects which are displayed in museum’s exhibit halls. Museum also has collection of utensils, weapons and clothes belonging to the Temur and Temurid epoch

Charvak Reservoir


Chimgan
Chimgan or Chimgon is a ski resort located in a mountain range named Tian Shan near Chirchiq Uzbekistan.

Lal Bahadur Shastri Monument


Monument of Courage
The Monumental Complex ‘Courage’ dedicated to the 1966 earthquake in Tashkent is one of the most significant monuments in today’s city. On 26 April 1966, an earthquake of the magnitude of 8.3 destroyed the city of Tashkent. It changed Tashkent’s appearance forever. Many people lost the roof over their heads and they had to take shelters in the tents. But the courage of the people of Tashkent rose above the adversity and the city was reconstructed from the very next day of the quake. Monument of courage is the symbol of the Uzbek people. This is one of the best Tourist Places in Tashkent.

Chimgan


Former palace of Romanov


Alisher Navoi Opera
The Navoi Theater is the national opera theater in Tashkent Uzbekistan. In 1929 amateurs of concert-ethnographic group led by M. Kari-Yakubov was established and later founded the professional theatre. In 1939 it was renamed to the Uzbek State Opera and Ballet Theatre and in March 1948 it was united with Russian theatre and called as the State Opera and Ballet Theatre named after Alisher Navoi. Later in 1959 the theatre obtained the status of Academic theatre and in 1966 the status of Bolshoi Theatre.

Memorial to the Victims of Repression in Tashkent


Hazrati Imam complex
Hazrat Imam complex was built in 2007. The complex was built near the tomb of the imam of the city of Tashkent a scholar and researcher of the Noble Quran and hadith one of the first preachers of Islam in Tashkent a poet and craftsman an urban imam. According to historical sources he was also a master in the manufacture of locks and keys receiving the title of Kaffal which means lock mastering 72 languages and translating the Old Testament into Arabic.

Chorsu Market


Mega Planet Mall


Samarkand Darvoza Street


Alay Bazaar
Alay Bazaar or Oloy Market is one of the oldest Bazaars in Tashkent. The bazaar saw trade caravans passing through it over the century to China, India, Europe and Middle East. It played a role of cultural center and social center for locals of Uzbekistan and visitors where people gathered to share and collect news about like in other countries. Today the Alay Bazaar is famous for vegetables, fruits, dry fruits, spices and oriental sweets.

Tashkent State Institute of Oriental Studies


Japanese Garden


Bibi-Khanym Mosque
The Bibi-Khanym Mosque is one of the most important monuments of Samarkand. In the 15th century it was one of the largest and most magnificent mosques in the Islamic world. By the mid-20th century only a grandiose ruin of it still survived but major parts of the mosque were restored during the Soviet period.

Siyob Bazaar
Siyob Bazaar also called Siab Bazaar is the largest bazaar in Samarkand Uzbekistan. All daily necessities such as Samarkand naan are sold. Siyob Bazaar is located adjacent to the Bibi-Khanym Mosque and is visited not only by local people b

Gur-e Amir
The Gr-i Amr or Guri Amir is a mausoleum of the Asian conqueror Timur in Samarkand Uzbekistan. It occupies an important place in the history of Central Asian Architecture as the precursor and model for later great Mughal architecture tombs including Gardens of Babur in Kabul Humayuns Tomb in Delhi and the Taj Mahal in Agra built by Timurs Mughal descendants Turc

Registan
The Registan was the heart of the ancient city of Samarkand of the Timurid Empire now in Uzbekistan. The name Rgistan means sandy place or desert in Persian. The Registan was a public square where people gathered to hear royal proclamations heralded by blasts on enormous copper pipes called dzharchis - and a place of public executions. It is framed by three madrasa

Zangiota


Shayx Zayniddin bobo maqbarasi
The Mausoleum of Sheikh Zaynudin Bobo is located in Tashkent, Uzbekistan. The Sheikh Zaynudin Bobo was a writer and popularizer of the Sufi order known as Suhrawardiyya. The exact date of his birth is unknown. It is believed that Sheikh Zaynudin died when he was 95.

Amir Temur Square
Amir Timur Square is surrounded with the buildings of the Uzbekistan Hotel University of Law (former Womens Gymnasium) the Amir Timur Museum well-known Tashkent Chimes and the Forums Palace - one of the most grandiose architectural structures in Tashkent. Almost all the buildings located around Amir Timur Square have historical importance

Tashkent Metro( Subway station)
The Tashkent Metro is the rapid transit system serving the city of Tashkent, the capital of Uzbekistan. It is one of only two subway systems currently operating in Central Asia. It was the seventh metro to be built in the former USSR, opening in 1977. Tashkent Metro was inspired by Moscow and St. Petersberg Metro and that is why they wanted Tashkent Metro to be a artistic masterpiece. Today, if you see each station of Tashkent Metro then you will immediately feel that you need some extra time to experience the beauty of it. Each station is absolutely gorgeous and they are all different from each other

Bolo Hauz Mosque
It is a historical mosque and inscribed in the UNESCO World Heritage Site. It was built in 1712 and was under the Bolshevik Russian rule in the 1920s.Bolo-Khauz Complex is the only preserved monument on the Registan Square. It is located on the opposite site of Ark - the Emirs fortress. The complex consists of the reservoir Friday mosque and minaret.The most ancient part of the complex is the pond (Khauz) which is called as Bolo-Khauz (Childrens reservoir). It is one of several ponds in Bukhara that reached our days. In past these reservoirs were the water source for the population and unfortunately the source of many deseases. Therefore most of them were drained.

Chor Minor
Chor Minor, alternatively known as the Madrasah of Khalif Niyaz-kul, is a historic mosque in the historic city of Bukhara. Situated in North east of Bukhara Chor Minor is a mosque and it is a monument which represents cultural heritage of Bukhara. This mosque in comparison to other mosques in the city is not so old. The mosque was constructed in 1807 and was a part of a madrasa complex which was demolished earlier. Chor Minor has four towers but they are not minarets exactly. Three of them are storage house and one of them has stairs that takes you to the top of the mosque. Bukhara contains lot of historicity with itself and that attracts visitors to walk into the past when visiting Bukhara

Ark of Bukhara(fortress)
Ark Fortress is a massive fortress located in the city of Bukhara and was initillay a citadel structure until it fell into the hand of the Russians. Today it is an important monument and a popular tourists attraction.Ark-Citadel is a residence of Bukhara khans. According to the last excavations it was determined the citadel was on this place from 4 century BC. For many years of building and destruction 20 meters height artificial hill was formed its upper layers were built over in the time of last bokharan emirs. The wooden part of Ark building was burnt down during the fire of 1920. The general planning is being reestablished by historical documents. Ark included the whole city consisting of closely accreted houses courts and yards with state institutions emir his wives and relatives and officials lodgings. Inside the trapeziform outlines of citadel walls the planning was right-angled with traditional cruciform crossing of main streets.Ark included emir lodging throe-room police department stables stores of clothes carpets utensils treasures armoury jail jewelers and other workshops mint place mosques mazars and other buildings.The first you can see it is massive fortress gates of Ark - portal with two-storey towers by sides from arch aperture and latticed architecture gallery on top. Behind it there is a musical pavilion built in 17 century two-coloured audience chamber surrounded by gallery. Here during a day there was performed a series of makoms  it is a musical work through it people could know the time (it is tradition left from zoroastrizm time).

Abdulaziz Khan Madrassah
The Madrasah has a fascinating facade which is a little gem in Bukhara.Opposite Ulugbek Madrasah there is Abdullazizkhan Madrasah. Abdullazizkhan built it in 1651  1652 and it is the last large Madrasah in Bukhara. The building is typical by composition with four-ayvans yard but with unordinary divergent fan of hudj groups after side ayvans and cupola buildings on the central axis.It is very interesting the improvement of living lodgings which consisted of entrance hall and hudjra and were equipped with free-places attic storeys wall niches for bed clothes dishes decorated in conformity with the taste of inhabitants who rented these apartments during their study.

Bakhautdin Naqsband Mausoleum
Bakhauddin was the first born then Nakhshbandi came into the picture. The tomb is a 2m block focusing specially on the large mazaar known as the Stone of desire. about Sayyid Baha-ud-Din Naqshband Bukhari (13181389) was the founder of what would become one of the largest Sufi Muslim orders the Naqshbandi.

Lyab-i Hauz
Lyab-i Hauz or Lyab-i Khauz is the name of the area surrounding one of the few remaining hauz that have survived in the city of Bukhara. Until the Soviet period there were many such ponds which were the citys principal source of water but they were notoriou

Samanid Mausoleum
The Samanid Mausoleum built in the 10th century C.E. is located in the northwestern part of Bukhara Uzbekistan just outside its historic center. It was built as the resting place of the powerful and influential Islamic Samanid dynasty that ruled the Samanid Empire from approximately 900 to 1000. It contained three burials one of whom is known to have been Nasr II.

Ulugbek Madrasah


Mir-i-Arab Madrasa
The construction of Mir-i-Arab Madrasah is credited to Sheikh Abdullah Yamani of Yemen in 1535. Also known as Mir-i-Arab he was considered the spiritual mentor of Ubaydullah-khan and his son Abdul-Aziz-khan. Prior to the construction of the madrasah Ubaydullah-khan was waging war against Iran. He managed to seize control of Herat several times resulting in the capture of a great many captives. Eventually Ubaydullah-khan sold three thousand of these Persian captives in order to provide funding for the construction of the Mir-i-Arab Madrasah. The interior of the Mir-i-Arab serves as evidence of some of the burial traditions of the time period. By the 1630s sovereigns no longer erected splendid mausoleums for themselves and for their relatives. Khans of the Shaibanid dynasty were standard-bearers of Koran traditions and religion became so consequential that even a famed Khan in Ubaydullah was buried next to his mentor in his madrasah. As such the wooden tomb of Ubaydullah-khan is situated in the middle of the vault in the Mir-i-Arab Madrasah.

Kalyan minaret
The Kalyan Minaret is a minaret of the Po-i-Kalyan mosque complex in Bukhara Uzbekistan and one of the most prominent landmarks in the city.

Observatory of Ulugbek Samarkand


Registan Square
The Square is located in the center of the city and has become a monument of architectural importance. It has gained worldwide fame for its grandeur and it is now a preserve building in Samarkand.From three sides the square is surrounded with grand madrassah portals of which are facing the center of the space. All three erections have their own unique dcor. It is by virtue of these buildings preserved on the territory of the city Samarkand was included in the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2001.The history of the Registan SquareTranslated from Uzbek registan means a sand place. In the ancient times this central square was covered by sand. The territory was not initially surrounded by madrassah those great erections appeared rather later. In that period authorities of the city were gathering people on the square to announce khans orders held celebrations and public executions and collected the army leaving to war.In the past one could see many trade rows around the square where artisans and farmers were selling their goods. All main roads of Samarkand led to Registan where it was always noisy and lively.Various rulers during their reign would change the main significance of the square but since those times and up to now Registan has always been the center of the city social life.There are three madrassahs on the square Ulughbek Sherdor and Tilla-Kori that are the main sights of the city. They were erected by two rulers at different times.

Shah-i-Zinda Ensemble
Shakhi Zinda is the burial place of royal persons and nobles. But the main mausoleum from which the necropolis starts seems to be the imaginary grave of Prophet Muhammads cousin Kusam ibn Abbas. The complex was called Shakhi Zinda that means in Persian The Living King. He was one of those who preached Islam in that region. Later the Complex became an important pilgrimage centre that was revered by the people as sacred.It consists of rows of refine sparkling blue colors tombs. Harmoniously combined in a lively and moving composition various mausoleums are grouped along the narrow medieval streets. Shakhi Zinda consists of eleven mausoleums which were built one after another in 14 - 15th centuries.A unique ensemble of ancient tombs (1370-1449 years) is located near Afrasiab settlement. It is also called Street cemetery. Building of mosques and mausoleums of XI-XV centuries oddly stretched on both sides and their blue domes look like an elegant necklace from the top.

Siab Bazaar
Siyob Bazaar also called Siab Bazaar is the largest bazaar in Samarkand Uzbekistan. All daily necessities such as Samarkand naan are sold. Siyob Bazaar is located adjacent to the Bibi-Khanym Mosque and is visited not only by local people but also by domestic and foreign tourists.

Hazrat Khizr Mosque


Flagshtok Dushanbe
The Dushanbe Flagpole is a flagpole located in front of the Palace of Nations in Dushanbe Tajikistan. At 165 metres it was the 02nd tallest free-standing flagpole in the world from its completion in 2011 until the 2014 erection of the 171 m Jeddah Flagpole

Palace of the Nation


Barak-Khan Madrassah


Kaffal Shashi Mausoleum


Al Hakim At-Termizi Mausoleum
The main holy place of Termez is the Mausoleum of Hakim at-Termizi also known as Muhammad ibn Isa at-Tirmidhi. This architectural monument was built to the north-west of the old Termez castle. Abu Abdulloh Mohammed Ibn Hasan ibn Bashir al-Hakim at-Termizi was the author of a number of religious philosophical works a religious leader an outstanding theorist of Islamic misticism and a prominent scholar and was the founder of the dervishes order.Hakimi is considered one of the twelve sects of mysticism. He was buried near the citadel of medieval Termez probably near to hanaqoh. Later a mausoleum of baked brick was built above. It had one chamber with a portal dome. The dome was carried by four strong arches and supported by corbel-cell sails. The entrance was on the south side the northern archway was open and the remaining ones were blocked off. At the end of the XI c. the interiors of the mausoleum were richly decorated with carved ganch.

Sultan Saodat Mausoleum
The cult-memorial complex of Sultan Saodat was developed during the period of XI-XVII c. at the graves of the Termez sayyids. It had a number of cult structures added at different times mausoleums mosques and hanagoh built on the perimeter of an elongated courtyard with a combination of integral and short compositions.The most ancient part was a three-part frontal opening the southwest part of the complex to the courtyard side. Here are located two large one- chambered square-domed mausoleums. They arc joined with an aperture terrace with a mihrab placed between them which was used as a funeral prayer niosque. Researchers have dated this ancient group to the XI-XII c. (52) or the middle of XI c.Due to their clear-cut solutions to the problems of structure decor and volume the mausoleums gained strict highly artistic architectural appearance.The wall of the mausoleum had an octahedron tier of arched sails on which was set a large dome.

Shah-i-Zinda
Shah-i-Zinda is a necropolis in the north-eastern part of Samarkand Uzbekistan.

The mausoleum of Imam al-Bukhari
Imam al-Bukhari was the great theologian of the East. He collected and recorded about 600 thousand hadith i.e. legend based on cases of life or some sayings of the Prophet. Out of them al-Bukhari selected as flawless about 7400 hadith to include into the famous As-Sahih which became the second most important book after the Koran for the majority of Sunni.Imam was born in Bukhara in 810 year and ended his life in Samarkand. He was buried in a small village Hartang 30 km from Samarkand.The mausoleum of Imam al-Bukhari presents in all of its magnificence. In the complex that occupies a vast territory there are mausoleums mosques hotel for tourists and pilgrims souvenir shops and religious literature.The mausoleum of Imam al-Bukhari is one of the main pilgrimage sites in Uzbekistan. The visiting of three shrines in Samarkand  the mausoleums of al-Bukhari Shakhi-Zinda and Rukhabad  within one day is called small Hajj.

Magoki Attor Mosque
The historical mosque is a part of the Lyab-i-Hauz and UNESCO World Heritage Site. The mosque is bounded by Po-i-Kalyan Toqi telpak Furushon and Lyab-i-Hauz.Today the mosque is used as a carpet museum.about history It is speculated as built in the 9th to 10th-century on the remains of a Zoroastrian temple from the pre-Islamic era.Before the Arab conquest there was a bazaar on the site of Magok-i Attari. It was a market for idols potions and spices  attar (perfumes) and other goods.there was formerly a Temple of the Moon (Mokh) close to this place.

Khoja-Gaukushan Madrasa
It is a group of buildings lining the crossroad of the two medieval streets and the Shah Rud canal. It was built by the influential Jubari family between the years 1562 -79.The Khoja-Gaukushan Ensemble is one of the largest architectural complexes in the center of Bukhara. Along with a number of other buildings in central Bukhara.

Po-i-Kalyan
Po-i-Kalan or Poi Kalan is an Islamic religious complex located around the Kalan minaret in Bukhara Uzbekistan.Po-i-Kalan or Poi Kalan is an Islamic religious complex located around the Kalan minaret in Bukhara Uzbekistan.

Alisher Navoi
The Alisher Navoi National Park is one of Uzbekistans largest urban parks. It was founded by the members of the Komsomol organisation from Tashkent in 1932. The park which in the Soviet period was named Komsomolsky was constructed on the site of the quarry of an old brick factory by volunteers. Currently it bears the name of great medieval enlightener Alisher Navoi. The area of the parks land is 65 ha while its lake and network of canals make up a total of 9 ha.

Mustakillik Square


Sailgokh Street(Tashkent Broadway)
Sailgokh Street known locally as Broadway has some street artists and painters who display their original artworks. The Broadway street is in the very center of Tashkent and connects two main squares of the city Amir Temur and Independent squares. There are many shopping centers fashion shops boutiques restaurants and cafes are located on and around the Broadway in Tashkent. Here you may also pick up some handmade crafts souvenirs and bric-a-bracs. Tashkents Broadway is also one of the greenest parks in the city with a huge area of shady trees and beautiful fountains.

Lake Charvak
Lake Charvak is a popular resort in Tashkent and several holiday makers from all over Uzbekistan and neighbouring countries visit the reservoir. Villages on the banks and surroundings offer wide range of hotels, dachas, houses and tapchans to accommodate tourists

Ismail Samanid Mausoleum
It is considered being one of the highly architectural works of Central Asia. It was built as a resting place for Amir of the Samanid dynasty along with the remains of his father and his nephew. the Samanids Mausoleum is of special interest. This world-famous architectural masterpiece was built at the close of the ninth century. The mausoleum was erected as a family crypt immediately after the death of Ismail Samanis father. Later Ismail himself and his grandson Hasr were also buried in it. It is interesting to note that erecting crypts was against Islamic law at that time for Islam forbade erecting any post-mortem monuments upon the tombs of Muslim believers. However the prohibition was broken in the middle of the ninth century by one of the caliphs himself for whom a special as-Suli-biya Mausoleum was built. Ismail merely followed his example.

Chashma-Ayub Mausoleum
Chashma-Ayub Mausoleum is located near the Samani Mausoleum in Bukhara Uzbekistan. Its name means Jobs well due to the legend in which Job visited this place and made a well by striking the ground with his staff. The water of this well is stil

Abdulaziz-Khan Madrasah


National Library Dushanbe
The National Library of Tajikistan opened in 2012 and built to resemble an open book is A nine-story working with an all-out space of 45.000m² and containing around 10 million books is the biggest library in Central Asia

Rudaki Avenue
Rudaki Avenue is the primary lane road in Dushanbe, the capital of Tajikistan. The road is named after Rudaki, the Tajik national artist. The road was known as Lenin Avenue during the Soviet time frame.

National Museum of Antiquities
The historical center of Antiquities of Tajikistan was established based on archeological discoveries introduced at the Exhibition of National Economy Achievements. The historical center of Antiquities of Tajikistan is situated in the 2- storey building in the center part of Dushanbe. Its work is isolated into periods beginning with fourth thousand years B.C. furthermore, finishing with the start of the twentieth century. The collection incorporates discoveries from the whole region of Tajikistan. One of the most popular shows of the National Museum of Antiquities of Tajikistan is a 12-meters in length leaning back Buddha sculpture, believed to be more than 1600 years of age

Dousti Square
Dousti Square is a square in Dushanbe Tajikistan. It is connected to Rudaki Avenue and Hofizi Sherozi Avenue. It is the largest in Dushanbe. The name Dousti is the Tajik word for friendship.Dousti Square is a square in Dushanbe Tajikistan. It is connected to Rudaki Avenue and Hofizi Sherozi Avenue. It is the largest in Dushanbe. The name Dousti is the Tajik word for friendship.

Allakuli Khan Madrassah
Madrassah of Allakuli Khan was built in the middle of the XIX century. It is considered the richest monument in its decoration. Majolica of Khorezmian type in black white and blue colors prevails here images in black contours is in the tambourines and framed double arcade of columns and three-quarters of the portal.Madrasah has a name of an initiator of its construction the Khiva ruler Allakuli Khan. In several khujdras on the first floor there was the city library founded by Allakuli Khan. The library provide books for all students of Khiva Madrasah.

Toshhovli Palace
the palace Tash-Khovli (stone country-estate) was built in the eastern part of the inner city. This complex of a building with three yards has rectangular plan in the southern part are the receiving yard Arz-Khovli and a yard for entertainment Ishrat-Khovli. The northern part is occupied by a harem. Labyrinths of corridors join the yards and buildings. The brothers and relatives of the khan lived in the palace. The two gates face the west and south. All the constructions were built from the high quality bricks. The fencing walls of the palace end up with figured cogs. From the flatness of the wall the high well-portioned towers stand out.Around the southern part of the square yards high single-pillar aivans are built with main houses behind them. On the other sides are the rooms for guests with small aivans on the second floor. Five excellent aivans come one after another in the harern. They are open to meet the northern winds. Two rooms were built behind the aivans through a main majolica entrance with a painted ceiling. They are simply decorated dwellings.Outside facades are not faced but the walls of the yards are separated into separate panels and decorated with majolica of a carpet pattern

Itchan Kala
Itchan Kala is inner town of the city of Khiva. This was inscribed as world heritage site in 1990. The architecture again is quite beautiful and the old town retains over 50 historic monuments and around 250 old houses. Remains of old architectures here represent beautiful and well preserved example of Muslim architecture of Central Asia. There are several outstanding structures one must visit while in Itchan Kala, such as the Djuma Mosque, the mausoleums and the madrasas and the two magnificent palaces built at the beginning of the 19th century by Alla-Kulli-Khan

Friday Mosque (Juma Mosque)


Kalta Minor Minaret


Citadel Kunya-ark
Arang-khan began the construction of this citadel complex in 1686 which contains a house for khan the members of his family and dignitaries.

Nadir Divan-Begi Madrasah
This is an excellent facade is architecturally exquisite with great tiling and is in the standard Bukhara blue. It hosts several entertainments in the night.Nadir Divan-begi Madrasah is a part of the architectural complex located round well-known Lyabi-Hauz in Bukhara. The madrasah building as well as khanaka nearby were named after vizier Nadir by whose order they were constructed. Vizier Nadir served at a court yard of one the strongest and powerful representatives of Ashtarkhanid dynasty Imamkuli-khan who ruled in Bukhara in 1611-1642. The board of Imamkuli-khan was one of the most stable and relatively peaceful for the whole history of Ashtarkhanids in Bukhara. It was time when governors paid attention not only to constant wars but also to town-planning.The Nadir Divan-begi madrasah is decorated in the style typical for all Muslim monuments of Central Asia. At the same time the images of birds animals and a human being - sun were also used in decoration and it was uncharacteristic for Islamic monuments. The Nadir Divan-begi Madrasah was built on the model of Sherdor in Samarkand but famous lions at the portal were replaced with mythical birds of happiness. Nadir Divan-begi ordered to construct pool near to khanaka and madrasah. Stone steps lead to it.. Subsequently this artificial reservoir was named Lyabi Hauz and became one of the most known sights of Bukhara.

Kukaldosh Madrasah
Kukeldash Madrassah of XVI century is the earliest building of the Lyabi Khauz Ensemble. It was buiult during the reign of the Sheybanids dynasty in Bukhara.This madrassah is the largest madrassah of the city (80 x 60 meters). The madrassah has over 130 hujras where lived and studied more than 320 students. It became the symbol of  powerful state under leading of Abdulla-khan.It is a two-storied building with a large mosaic portal at the entrance decorated with deep arched nishes flanked on the corners by elegant columns of translucent green onyx. The interior decoration is the perfect example of white interior.

Ulugh Beg Madrasa Samarkand
The Ulugh Beg Madrasa is a religious educational institution in Samarkand Uzbekistan. It was built by Ulugh Beg during the Timurid dynasty at the Registan in the heart of the ancient city of Samarkand.

Sher Dor Madrasah
One of the 3 Muslim clergy academies surrounding the Registan.

Tillya Kori Madrasah
One of the 3 Moslem clergy academies that surround Registan square.

Central Exhibition Hall Of Academy Of Arts
near The Hotel Lotte City Hotel Tashkent Palace there is the Central Exhibition Hall of the Academy of Arts of Uzbekistan. Opened in 1974 with an exhibition area of 2500 square meters it is one of the largest halls in Central Asia. The spacious and bright rooms display pictures and sculptures of many famous masters of Uzbekistan as well as the paintings of young artists who keep the traditions of Uzbek pictorial art enriching them with modern ideas.The centerpiece of the building is occupied by a sculpture and graphics hall surrounded by halls of paintings and applied arts located already on the second floor.

Tashkent TV Tower
Seeing something beautiful from top is always a great experience. And when you see the beautiful city of Tashkent from the observation deck of Tashkent TV Tower, the tallest in Uzbekistan, then it is definitely a different experience altogether. Tashkent TV tower itself is an architectural masterpiece. It is a 375-metre-high tower, and is the 11th tallest tower in the world. Construction started in 1978 and it began operation 6 years later, on 15 January 1985. It was the 3rd tallest tower in the world from 1985 to 1991

Mausoleum Rukhabad


Ark of Bukhara
The Ark of Bukhara is a massive fortress located in the city of Bukhara Uzbekistan that was initially built and occupied around the 5th century AD. In addition to being a military structure the Ark encompassed what was essentially a town that during much of the f

Statue of Amir Timur


Amir Temur Crypt
Behind the Dorus Siadat is a bunker with a wooden door leading to the crypt of Tamerlane discovered in 1943 when a child playing football fell through the ground. The room is plain except for Karanic quotations on the arches which read as follows The Supremacy belongs to Allah alone. He is Eternal and All Good is in Allahs hands He is Allmighty. In the center of the room there is the marble sarcophagus. It is covered with a huge monolithic marble gravestone which is 11 centimetres thick with 5 iron rings being attached at the corners and in the middle. One the stone were found encryptions related to the life of Amir Timur thus it is believed that the crypt was intended for him.

Kalon Minaret
The ancient architecture is an incredible piece of work which has withstood time for almost nine centuries. However the 105 inner stairs has been closed off to tourists.The ancient architecture is an incredible piece of work which has withstood time for almost nine centuries. However the 105 inner stairs has been closed off to tourists.The Kalyan minaret is a minaret of the Po-i-Kalyan mosque complex in Bukhara Uzbekistan and one of the most prominent landmarks in the city. The minaret designed by Bako was built by the Qarakhanid ruler Mohammad Arslan Khan in 1127 to summon Muslims to prayer five times a day.

Statue of Amir Temur


Pakhlavan Makhmud Mausoleum
This mausoleum is of the 14th-century poet and sage Pakhlavan Makhmud who was proclaimed a Muslim saint since he belonged to the Kungrad Dynasty.

Kunya-Ark Citadel from 1686
in 1686 Arang-khan began the construction of the citadel Kunya-ark at the western gates of Ichan-kala. The ark presented a complex multi-yard composition containing a house for khan the members of his family and dignitaries.From the large numbers of constructions of the ark only several buildings of the nineteenth century and the beginning of the twentieth century were preserved. They were the official reception hall (kurinishkhana) a mosque the mint and a harem.There was an outer yard serving as a waiting room for the khans audiences. There were cannons in a second yard.The Akshikh-bobo aivan has also been used for military observation.the yards with their splendid aivans.

Palace of Khudyr Khn
The Palace of Khudayar Khan known as the Pearl of Kokand was the palace of the last ruler of the Kokand Khanate Khudayar Khan.The palace of the Khan of Kokand with seven courtyards and 114 rooms was built in 1873 though its dazzling tiled exterior makes it look so perfect that youd be forgiven for thinking it was as new as the modern park that surrounds it. Just three years after its completion the tsars troops arrived blew up its fortifications and abolished the khans job.Roughly half of the palace used to be taken up by the harem quarters which the Russians demolished in 1919. Khudayars 43 concubines would wait to be chosen as wife for the night  Islam allows only four wives so the khan kept a mullah at hand for a quick and short-lived marriage ceremony.Six courtyards remain and their 27 rooms collectively house the Kokand Regional Studies Museum.

Juma Mosque(Jami Mosque)
he Jami Mosque is the true decoration of Kokands Chorsu square. Citizens cannot imagine their city without this magnificent mosque. It seemes that it was always on that site. And indeed in historical chronicles of IX-XII centuries there are mentions of the mosque in Kokand which stood in the same place on the square Chorsu. But during the Mongol invasions the Jami Mosque as well as the entire city was destroyed.the present mosque was built in the XIX century. In 1805 Kokand Olimhan started to build a mosque but construction was suspended the superior of the mosque stood up against the construction of mosque at the expence of funds collected by force from the common people.Two years later the Jami Mosque was built.

Ak Saray Palace
Timur began to think of building a magnificent edifice summoned an architect and set out his objective. After listening to the ruler the architect asked to be allowed into the state exchequer. When permission was granted the craftsman started to make foundation blocks from clay mixed with gold in full view of Timur.Seeing that the ruler remained impassive he broke up the blocks and returned the gold to the exchequer. When Timur asked Why did you do that the architect replied So as to make sure of your determination to embark on constructing a building that requires vast expenditure. A second legend recounts that after the main building work had been completed Timur began to tell the craftsmen to hurry up and finish the decorative facing of the palace.

Kok Gumbaz mosque in Shahrisabz
Kok-Gumbaz Mosque was built in Dorut-Tillavat Memorial complex just opposite to Shamsiddin Kulol Mausoleum in 1435-1436. It is the largest Friday mosque in Shakhrisabz. The inscription on the portal announces that the mosque was constructed by Ulugbek on behalf of his father Shakhruh.The building of the mosque is crowned by a huge dome covered with blue ceramic tiles. It gave the name to the mosque  Kok Gumbaz that means Blue Dome. Around the tholobate of the dome there is the inscription with white glazed tiles Sovereignty belongs to Allah wealth belongs to Allah.The internal space of Kok-Gumbaz Mosque is nearly square in its layout and has four deep niches carefully oriented to the each corner of the earth. The whole wall surface was covered with ganch stucco and painted with intricate dark and light blue ornaments.

Toqi Sarrofon Bazaar(Trading Domes)
There are only four trading domes which exist in Bukhara namely the Toki-Sarrofon Trading Dome Telpak Furushon Trading Dome Tim Abdullakhan Trading Dome and Toki-Zargaron Trading Dome.Bukhara is well-known to the world not only with its mosques Ark Fortress and the majestic Kalyan minaret but also with its trading domes stretching in procession from Lyabi-Khauz to the Miri-Arab madrasah. Long ago in the XVI century under the Shaybanides dynasty Bukhara became the capital giving rise to unprecedented growth of the city and since it was located on the Great Silk Road the markets and trading stores even more congested cross-roads of public roads. Several centuries passed since that and four trading domes have only survived up to date.

DJuma Mosque
Djuma (Friday) mosque in the center of Ichan-kala. It was erected at the end of the eighteenth century over the ruins of previous construction. This is an original building without portals and cupolas without galleries and yards. It is 55x46 m. One can enter the mosque from four sides. From the northern facade facing the one of the main streets of the city the mosque faces a minaret 52 m. high.The building is fenced with brick walls. The interior space is a single hall the flat ceiling of which is supported by 215 wooden pillars.Small openings were made in the ceiling for light and ventilation of the hall.The interior is simply plastered. Spaces between the windows are painted in black and red colors trees bushes and irises are realistically represented symbolizing the wish of peace and tranquil in the monumental and decorative art of Central Asia.

Chor-Minor
Offering a terrace Chor Minor Hotel is located in the historical centre of Bukhara a 12-minute walk to Kalyan Minaret and 300 metres from Lyabi Haus Square. Free WiFi access and private parking are available. The air-conditioned rooms are decorat

Sitori-i-Mokhi Khosa palace
The palace used to be a summer resting place for the Khans of Bukhara when the city was under the Russian protectorate. It features a subtle Oriental and Russian decoration and style.In the mid-XIX century Emir of Bukhara Nasrullah Khan decided to build a new country seat for himself. To choose the coolest place not to suffer from summer heat the architects made recourse to an old method - dressed muttons were put on the potential sites of construction. The place where the meat got spoiled last was chosen for the construction of the suburban pearl of Bukhara. Unfortunately this palace did not survive to the present day.Several decades later another emir of Bukhara Mir Sayyd Muhammad Alim Khan initiated the construction of a new palace there. A legend has it that Emir devoted the palace to his wife Sitora. The construction work which lasted several years resulted in the residence of unprecedented beauty. The Bukhara architects having trained in Russia managed to combine oriental and western styles in their creation. After a while the Emirs wife died and her name was given to the palace. It was named Sitorai Mokhi-Khosa translated from Tajik as Star like the Moon and this name was preserved to this day. Unfortunately the Sitorai Mokhi-Khosa also shared the fate of the first palace  it was destroyed.The extant Sitorai Mokhi-Khosa Palace was built in 1912-1918 by order of the last Emir of Bukhara Mir Sayyd Muhammad Alim Khan.The palace main building consists of several reception halls and emirs private rooms. Special attention was given to White Hall decorated by the famous master usto Shirin Muradov who was subsequently perpetuated in a monument installed in the territory of the summer residence

Modari Khan Mausoleum
This religious complex was built in 1825 for maternal Kokand Umarkhan. He also connected with the name of the poet Nadira - spouses Umarkhan. The fate of Nadira - wife of the ruler and the poet Umarkhan - was tragic she was executed on the orders of the Emir of Bukhara - Nasrallah. In memory of the poetesse close to the mausoleum there was built a monument of white marble and bronze.Madari Khan Mausoleum is a small-sized portal-domed tomb with small faceted minarets which is located behind the cemetery.

Tashkent Zoo
Tashkent Zoo was founded in 1924. The zoo occupied an area of about 3 hectares. You will find around 500 different species of animals and it is perfectly suitable for people of all ages and you can visit it with your family. There are artificial lakes and fountains waterfalls and a water channel a large pond with a beautiful bridge and numerous resting places and animal sculptures in a pleasant green area.  Tashkent Zoological park is a cultural educational and research establishment.

Trading Domes
Bukhara is popular for it its old town trading domes that stretch from Lyabi-Khauz to the Miri-Arab madrasah. Current Bukhara trading domes date back to the 16th century when Bukharas ideal location along the Silk Road gave it an advantage and the city grew rapidly.

Tashkent Tower
The Tashkent Television Tower is a 375-metre-high tower located in Tashkent Uzbekistan and is the twelfth tallest tower in the world. Construction started in 1978 and it began operation six years later on 15 January 1985. It was the forth tallest tower in the world from 1985 to 1991. Moreover the decision of construction Tashkent Tower or TV-Tower of Uzbekistan was decided on 1 September 1971 in order to spread the TV and radio signals to all over the Uzbekistan. It is of a vertical cantilever structure and is constructed out of steel. Its architectural design is a product of the Terxiev Tsarucov & Semashko firm.

Chimgon


Tashkent Lakeside Golf Club
Tashkent Lakeside Golf Club is the first International Championship Golf Course in Central Asia. It is a perfect place to spend an alternative golf holiday. In addition to golf visitors will have an opportunity to visit the historical cities of Uzbekistan.

Great Minaret of the Kalon
It was built by the Karakhanid ruler Arslan Khan in 1127. According to the legend Arslan Khan killed an imam. The imam asked the khan in a dream to lay the imams head on a spot where nobody can tread on it. Thus the tower was built over the imams grave. With a height of 47 m it is Bukharas landmark. In its ornamental bands the glazed blue tiles were used for the first time in Central Asia. It gets its nickname as the Tower of Death because they once executed criminals by taking them to the top and pushing them out leaving them to fall to their death. This practice stopped in the early 1900s. You can follow the same street toward town to also see the Toki Zargaron Mosque which is unique and features a very intricate design.

Ulugh Beg Observatory
The Ulugh Beg Observatory is an observatory in Samarkand Uzbekistan. Built-in the 1420s by the Timurid astronomer Ulugh Beg. Islamic astronomers who worked at the observatory include Al-Kashi Ali Qushji and Ulugh Beg himself. The observatory was destroyed in 1449 and rediscovered in 1908.

Charvak Artificial Reservoir
The Charvak Artificial Reservoir is a popular recreational spot located near Tashkent, Uzbekistan. Created by damming the Chatkal River, the reservoir is surrounded by picturesque mountains and offers stunning views. It serves as a key destination for water-based activities like boating and fishing, as well as relaxation by the water's edge. The area is perfect for a day trip or a weekend getaway, providing opportunities for picnicking, hiking, and enjoying nature. The reservoir’s clear blue waters and scenic backdrop make it a favored spot for both locals and tourists seeking a serene retreat from the city.

Tashkent–Samarkand Bullet Train
Bullet Train from Tashkent to Samarkand is a 344-kilometre high speed rail connection between Tashkent and Samarkand. The route passes through Tashkent, Sirdaryo, Jizzakh and Samarqand in Uzbekistan. Trains operate seven days a week under the brand Afrosiyob

Chimgan Mountains
Chimgan is the most popular ski resort of Uzbekistan, located 80 km from Tashkent on slopes of Chimgan Mountains, the part of Chatkal range of western Tian-Shan.  Tourist complex Chimgan includes the number of high-rise buildings, hotels, cottages, cable rail road, network of shops, bars, restaurants and cafe and other recreation institutions.

Lal Bahadur Shastri Memorial
Lal Bahadur Shastri Memorial, Tashkent is a city landmark. Shastri is a great figure for India however a monument is built in the central part of Tashkent. As dedicated to the person who had contributed to the development of India, it left a track in the history of not only India, but also Tashkent.

Hazrat Imam Complex
Hazrat Imam Complex, also known as Hast-Imam located in an old residential district of Tashkent. Hast Imam Square is a religious center of Tashkent, but you can also explore the place for it’s architectural beauty. The primary significance of the complex is a rich library where oriental manuscripts are preserved. The world famous Quran of Caliph Uthman – Ottoman has been preserved here. Ottoman Koran is the primary source of Islam holy book that was written in the middle of VII century. Landscape designer’s great work can be observed here. You should see the imported exotic trees, shrubs and flowers from different countries which have been planted on the territory of the complex

The Broadway
This is another Tourist Attraction in Tashkent near Amir Temur Square. This is Saligokh Street, locally known as Broadway. It connects the two main squares Amir Temur square and Independence Square in Tashkent city. This is also one of the greenest parks here covering huge area with lots of trees and fountains. For visitors there are shopping centers, restaurants, fashion stores and cafes. You can buy handicraft items, souvenirs and other items on and around Broadway Street.

Kukeldash Madrasah
Kukeldash Madrasah is a medieval madrasa in Tashkent, located close to Chorsu Bazaar and Chorsu Metro station. It was built around 1570 by the Shaybanid Dynasty of rulers. This is a place where public executions were held. This was an old fortress which used to be an old Islamic school in 16th century which two hundred years later was a caravanserai. This is one of of the most historic buildings in Tashkent. The madrasah is built of yellow brick, and has a traditional square shape with a big portal and an inner yard.

Tashkent Clock Tower
Tashkent clock tower, located in the centre of the city near the city administration, is one of the symbols of the capital of Uzbekistan. This tower was opened in 1947 on the eve of second anniversary of Victory Day. The tower has big chimes. The clock tower has an interesting story about how it came to Tashkent. Today, there are 2 towers, second one being exact copy of the first. In both the towers you can see the aesthetics of the past and the dynamic present. You can also see combination of modern and traditional elements of the Uzbek art. In the old tower you can see traditional Uzbek arts and antiques and in the new tower you can see showrooms displaying ancient and contemporary jewelry created by crafts dynasty

Uzbekistan Museum of Applied Arts
The Museum of Arts of Uzbekistan is the largest state art museum in Uzbekistan. This was an exhibition organised in 1927. This was the exhibition of best works of Uzbekistan masters. After a while this started adding items from the previous centuries which included handmade embroideries, skullcaps, jewelry, carpets and other samples of people’s applied art. Thus 10 years later in 1937 this exhibition achieved the status of Museum. So initially this was known as Museum of handicrafts which later in 1997 was granted the state status and received its present name of Uzbekistan state museum of Applied Arts. Its permanent collection contains more than several thousands works, divided among four curatorial departments

Memorial of Cosmonauts
There have been many scholars, scientists and cosmonauts who were born in Uzbekistan and they did brilliant job in their respective fields. This memorial of cosmonauts has been made in their memory. The space travel theme has been used to decorate the museum. It recognizes the achievements of mankind in space exploration. Memorial also commemorates the role of Vladimir Dzhanibekov, who was the Soviet cosmonaut of Uzbek origin. There is a statue of Vladimir Dzhanibekov standing near one of the subway entrances. He was born in Tashkent region. This is also one of the Tourist Places in Tashkent you should visit

Palace of International Forums
The Palace of International Forums, Uzbekistan is one of the main Tashkent Tourist Place today. It stands on Amir Temur Square in the very center of Tashkent city. The palace is considered the country’s most significant representative building. This truly spectacular palace was ceremonially opened in September 2009 celebrating Tashkent’s 2200th anniversary. You will find that the palace has classical external elements making it appear amazing and in the interiors you go through the extensively glazed facade. The main foyer has a ceiling height of over 16 meters and an area of 2,500 square meters.

Center of Enlightenment
Center of enlightenment is a modern and spectacular building in the center of Tashkent. The building is home to the Palace of Symposiums and National Library of Uzbekistan. During the years of independence, the Center of enlightenment became an organic part of a single composition; in the center of Tashkent which included others like the Palace of Youth Creativity, Art Gallery, a business center “Poytaht”. Adjacent to the Independence Square, the center of enlightenment stands out as distinguished modern landscape design

Botanical Garden
If your are interested in natural places then should visit Botanical Garden in Tashkent. This garden here add a lovely splash of color and they are fantastic stopover for the visitors. Botanical Garden have thousands of trees, flower, shrub, vine and other plant species. They are all beautiful and represent the beauty of different geographies of the world. This happens to be the largest and the oldest botanical garden in the entire Central Asia region

Babur Recreation Park
This is an amusement park where you can enjoy various fun rides and entertainment options here. There are lot of green spaces and a lovely pond in the center of the park as well. Babur Recreation Parks another park known as the Seattle Peace Park inside of it which is popular for its own cool things. In this small park you can see a collection of tiles designed by students of Tashkent as well as Seattle. There is also a peace bell here. This bell is is rung every year on 21st September on the International peace day. You can have a really good time here

Central Asian Plov Center
If you are a foodie? Then Central Asian Plov Center is must go to place for you in Tashkent. Plov is one of the most famous dish of Central Asia and national dish of the Uzbekistan. Central Asian Plov Center is the place to taste Plov. This is the place where you get the best plov in the entire region. Plove is cooked in massive pans (Kozon), which can feed hundreds of people at a time

Chorsu Bazaar
Chorsu Bazaar is hundreds years old. Chorsu Bazaar is a traditional bazaar with bright colors. Chorsu is biggest and oldest in Uzbekistan and in Central Asia. Located across the street from Chorsu Station of the Tashkent metro near Kukeldosh Madrasah, in chorus all daily necessities are sold. Chorsu Bazaar like any oriental bazaar has played significant display of social life since beginning. There are 7 huge domes with colored glazed tiles under which the bazaar exist. So after historical and bit of physical description, you would be curious to know what you get in Chorsu to see and buy. It is one of the Must Visit Attractions in Tashkent.

Karavan Bazaar
Karavan Bazaar in Tashkent is mainly for dealers to buy cheapest food in Tashkent. Karavan Bazaar is also the most preferred bazaar in Tashkent for shopping for both locals and travelers. In the bazaar one can buy many things like food, construction equipment, electronic items, machinery, clothing and carpets. Karavan Bazaar is spread over a huge area and you may need an entire day in this Bazaar only for shopping several items

Bek Baraka Wholesale Market Tashkent
Bek Baraka wholesale market is locally famous as wholesale clothes market in Tashkent. The market is new as it started only in 2011. Bek Baraka wholesale market is located on the outskirts of Tashkent opposite another cloth market known as Chilanzar clothing market and Abu Sahiy market in Tashkent. There are 3 pavilions in the Bek Baraka wholesale market. The first pavilion sells food products, second pavilion sells industrial products and third pavilion sells home appliance and consumer goods.

Gur-e Amir Mausoleum
Gur-e Amir Mausoleum is named after the Asian conqueror Tamerlane, also known as Timur in Samarkand. It occupies an important place in the history of Islamic architecture as the precursor for great Mughal tombs, including Humayun's Tomb in Delhi and the Taj Mahal in Agra. Gur e Amir is tomb of King Timur and other member of his family, the Mughal dynasty. The architecture has an azure dome and contains tombs of Muhammed Sultan, Timur and his sons and grandsons along with his teacher Sayyid Baraka. The monument that was built in 1403 has now only remains of it, not the entire piece

Shah I Zinda
Shah-i-Zinda is a necropolis in the north-eastern part of Samarkand, Uzbekistan. Today’s Shah I Zinda ensemble includes mausoleum and ritual buildings from the time of 9th to 14th and 19th centuries. It was established with a single religious monument in the beginning and then temples, mausoleums and other buildings were added from 11th to 19th centuries. Shah I Zinda is perfect example of various architectural imprints through the centuries. The style, the method and the decorative craftsmanship of this site is a witness of work that changed throughout the time. If you love historical monuments then you should visit Shah I Zinda in Uzbekistan. It is one of the top tourist attractions in Samarkand

Imam Bukhari Mausoleum
Imam Bukhari Mausoleum occupies a vast territory, one of the main pilgrimage sites in Samarkand. The visiting of three shrines, the mausoleums of Al-Bukhari, Shakhi-Zinda and Rukhabad, within one day, is called ‘small Hajj.

Imam Bukhari Mausoleum
Imam Bukhari Mausoleum occupies a vast territory, one of the main pilgrimage sites in Samarkand. The visiting of three shrines, the mausoleums of Al-Bukhari, Shakhi-Zinda and Rukhabad, within one day, is called ‘small Hajj.

El Merosi Show
It is an ethno cultural performance that shows the different historical periods of the country until the present day. It is performed by trained actors, dancers, musicians, etc at a historical building that can accommodate up to 90 spectators.
 
The performers wear similar costumes worn by Massagetae and Saka, Persian, Zoroastrian and Sogdian rulers, etc. It comprises a wide range of colorful garments from the ancient period up to present-day Uzbekistan. The performance has eleven episodes with different soundtracks fragments played on gijak, duta, ney, etc

Historic Centre of Bukhara
Located on the silk road Bukhara in the ancient times served a great role as a centre for trade, scholarship, cultural exchange and religion. Historic Centre of Bukhara was listed as world heritage site in the year 1993. Bukhara is a city museum which has 140 architectural monuments. Some of these famous monuments are Kalyan minaret, Kalan mosque, Char minar and Chashma Ayub mausoleum. Every monument in Bukhara is a great representation of ancient architecture

Historic Centre of Shahrisabz
Shahrisabz is a city in Southern Uzbekistan located around 80 KM south of Samarkand. Shahrisabz once used to be a major part of Central Asia and it is known mainly for being the birthplace of 14th century conqueror emperor Timur. So everything here is connected with the name of Timur. Shahrisabz is said to be one of the most ancient cities of Central Asia. Shahrisabz was listed as World Heritage Site in 2000. In old times the city was called Kesh and was named as Shahrisabz in modern times.
France
Indisputably dominating the top section of every traveller’s bucket list, France stands out as one of the largest countries in Europe and also as a proud home to the highest mountain, Mont Blanc. This magnificent country is majorly synonymous with the wonders of its capital- Paris; however, going beyond this city to fully appreciate the richness of French culture and beauty of this diverse country will truly fulfil your French sojourn dreams. Flourishing on its globally loved concept of art de Vivre (the art of living), its fairy-tale castles, glorious architectural masterpieces, contemporary city settings, picture-perfect villages and leisurely gourmet meals (considered the finest in the world), the country captivates all your senses. From the turquoise shores of the French Riviera to the lush lavender fields of Provence, from the chic seaside resorts of the Côte d'Azur to the impressive places to visit in Paris, from skiing in the Alps to gastronomic tour in Lyon, each of France Attractions has its treasures that entice the travellers from far and wide. When we look for the best places to visit in France, Paris pops up on the very top of our Google searches and for a good reason. It is the most visited city destination in Europe and the world and travelling to this incredible corner of Europe is not like a usual holiday with friends and family. The experience is like a pure seduction to the senses, a feeling of being taken back to the fairytale backdrops as the visually attractive Paris Attractions sprinkled across the region cast a lasting spell and leave you enchanted. With an abundance of incredible history and architecture, art and matchless cuisines, Paris makes you fall head over heels in love with it, just at the very first glimpse. Your love affair with Paris usually begins with the symbol of love Eiffel Tower and will continue till you see sun-lit café terraces of Boulevard Saint-Germain, the Louvre Museum, feel the sights and sounds around the Seine River, the magnificence of Notre-Dame Cathedral and the buzzing energy of Champs-Élysées. Whether you have a week or a month to spend in Paris, the travel experience here every single day is extraordinarily rewarding. Enjoy the simple pleasures of France and appreciate the contrast between rich history and its surprising modernity. To help you plan your trip to this incredible corner of the world, we’ve handpicked and listed the Top France Tourist Attractions that are sure to leave you awestruck!
Versailles Palace
The Palace of Versailles was the principal royal residence of France from 1682 under Louis XIV until the start of the French Revolution in 1789 under Louis XVI. It is located in the department of Yvelines in the region of le-de-France about 20 kilometres southwest of the centre of Paris. A simple hunting lodging and later a small chteau with a moat occupied the site until 1661 when the first work expanding the chteau into a palace was carried out for Louis XIV. In 1682 when the palace had become large enough the king moved the entire royal court and the French government to Versailles. Some of the palace furniture at this time was constructed of solid silver but in 1689 much of it was melted down to pay for the cost of war. Subsequent rulers mostly carried out interior remodeling to meet the demands of changing taste although Louis XV did install an opera house at the north end of the north wing for the wedding of the Dauphin and Marie Antoinette in 1770. The palace has also been a site of historical importance.

Chapel of Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal
The Chapel of Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal in Paris France is the chapel where the Blessed Virgin Mary appeared to Saint Catherine Labour in 1830 and requested the creation of the medal which came to be known as the Miraculous Medal. The Chapel was part of the mother house of the Daughters of Charity of Saint Vincent de Paul. Catherine Labour was a seminary sister there when

Church of Saint-Sulpice
The Church of Saint-Sulpice is a Roman Catholic church in Paris France on the east side of Place Saint-Sulpice in the Latin Quarter of the 6th arrondissement. It is only slightly smaller than Notre-Dame and thus the second largest church in the city. It is dedicated to Sulpitius the Pious. Construction of the present building the second church on the site began in 1646. During the 18th cent

Musee DOrsay
The Muse dOrsay is a museum in Paris France on the Left Bank of the Seine. It is housed in the former Gare dOrsay a Beaux-Arts railway station built between 1898 and 1900. The museum holds mainly French art dating from 1848 to 1914 including paintings sculptures furniture and photography. It houses the largest collection of Impressionist and post-Impressionist masterpieces in the world by painters including Monet Manet Degas Renoir Czanne Seurat Sisley Gauguin and Van Gogh. Many of these works were held at the Galerie nationale du Jeu de Paume prior to the museums opening in 1986. It is one of the largest art museums in Europe. Muse dOrsay had more than 3.6 million visitors in 2019.

Place Vendme
Place Vendme earlier known as Place Louis-le-Grand is a square in the 1st arrondissement of Paris France located to the north of the Tuileries Gardens and east of the glise de la Madeleine. It is the starting point of the rue de la Paix. Its regular architecture by Jules Hardouin-Mansart and pedimented screens canted across the corners give the rectangular place Vendme th

Palais Garnier
The Palais Garnier or Opra Garnier is a 1979-seat opera house at the Place de lOpra in the 9th arrondissement of Paris France. It was built for the Paris Opera from 1861 to 1875 at the behest of Emperor Napoleon III. Initially referred to as le nouvel Opra de Paris it soon became known as the Palais Garnier in acknowledgment of its extraordinary opulence and the architect Charles G

The Arc de Triomphe
The Arc de Triomphe de ltoile is one of the most famous monuments in Paris France standing at the western end of the Champs-lyses at the centre of Place Charles de Gaulle formerly named Place de ltoilethe toile or star of the juncture formed by its twelve radiating avenues. The location of the arc and the plaza is shared between three arrondissements 16th 17th and 8th. The Arc de Triomphe honours those who fought and died for France in the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars with the names of all French victories and generals inscribed on its inner and outer surfaces. Beneath its vault lies the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier from World War I. As the central cohesive element of the Axe historique the Arc de Triomphe was designed by Jean Chalgrin in 1806 its iconographic programme pits heroically nude French youths against bearded Germanic warriors in chain mail. It set the tone for public monuments with triumphant patriotic messages. Inspired by the Arch of Titus in Rome Italy the Arc de Triomphe has an overall height of 50 metres width of 45 m and depth of 22 m while its large vault is 29.19 m high and 14.62 m wide.

Muse dOrsay
The Muse dOrsay is a museum in Paris France on the Left Bank of the Seine. It is housed in the former Gare dOrsay a Beaux-Arts railway station built between 1898 and 1900. The museum holds mainly French art dating from 1848 to 1914 including paintings sculptures furniture and photography. It houses the largest collection of Impressionist and post-Impressionist masterpiece

Place de la Concorde
The Place de la Concorde is one of the major public squares in Paris France. Measuring 7.6 ha in area it is the largest square in the French capital. It is located in the citys eighth arrondissement at the eastern end of the Champs-lyses. It was the site of many notable public executions including the execution of King Louis XVI during the French Revolution.

Lion Monument
The Lion Monument or the Lion of Lucerne is a rock relief in Lucerne Switzerland designed by Bertel Thorvaldsen and hewn in 182021 by Lukas Ahorn. It commemorates the Swiss Guards who were massacred in 1792 during the French Revolution when revolutionaries stormed the Tuileries Palace in Paris. It is one of the most famous monuments in Switzerland visited annu

Parc de lOrval


Champs-lyses
The Avenue des Champs-lyses is an avenue in the 8th arrondissement of Paris France 1.9 kilometres long and 70 metres wide running between the Place de la Concorde and the Place Charles de Gaulle where the Arc de Triomphe is located. It is known for its theatres cafs and luxury shops for the annual Bastille Day military parade and as the finish of the Tour de France

Moulin Lacade - Maison Paternelle de Sainte Bernadette


Gouffre DEsparros


Musee de la Medaille Miraculeuse


Dijon Cathedral
Dijon Cathedral or at greater length the Cathedral of Saint Benignus of Dijon is a Roman Catholic church located in the town of Dijon Burgundy France and dedicated to Saint Benignus of Dijon. The Gothic cathedral building constructed between 1280 and 1325 and dedicated on 9 April 1393 is a listed national monument.

Rhine Falls
The Rhine Falls is a waterfall located in Switzerland and the most powerful waterfall in Europe. The falls are located on the High Rhine on the border between the cantons of Schaffhausen and Zrich between the municipalities of Neuhausen am Rheinfall and Laufen-UhwiesenDachsen next to the town of Schaffhausen in northern Switzerland.

Royal Opera of Versailles
The Royal Opera of Versailles is the main theatre and opera house of the Palace of Versailles. Designed by Ange-Jacques Gabriel it is also known as the Thtre Gabriel. The interior decoration by Augustin Pajou is constructed almost entirely of wood painted to resemble marble in a technique known as faux marble. The excellent acoustics of the opera house are at least partly due to its woode

Archaeological Museum of Dijon


Ducal Palace


Arc de Triomphe
The Arc de Triomphe de ltoile is one of the most famous monuments in Paris France standing at the western end of the Champs-lyses at the centre of Place Charles de Gaulle formerly named Place de ltoilethe toile or star of the juncture formed by its twelve radiating avenues. The location of the arc and the plaza is shared between three arrondissements 16th 17th and 8th. Th

Val dEurope
Val dEurope is a shopping mall located 30 minutes to the east of Paris and 5 minutes from the DisneyLand Paris theme park and the Villages Nature holiday village. The mall has 190 shops and 30 restaurants covering over 1000000 square feet since its most recent expansion completed in March 2017. Imagine what it would be like to enjoy a day of Parisian shopping during your trip to

Seine
Seine was a department of France encompassing Paris and its immediate suburbs. Its capital was Paris and its official number was 75. The Seine department was abolished in 1968 and its territory divided among four new departments.

Palace of the Dukes of Burgundy
The Palace of the Dukes and Estates of Burgundy or Palais des ducs et des tats de Bourgogne is a remarkably well-preserved architectural assemblage in Dijon. The oldest part is the 14th and 15th century Gothic ducal palace and seat of the Dukes of Burgundy made up of a logis still visible on place de la Liberation the ducal kitchens on cour de Bar the tour de Philippe le Bon a

Fourvire
Fourvire is a district of Lyon France a hill immediately west of the old part of the town rising from the river Sane.

Musee de Prehistoire de Solutre
The Museum of Prehistory in Solutr contains exhibits from one of the richest sites in Europe. Solutr was a hunting site for ever 25 000 years. Man of the Upper Palaeolithic trapped killed and dismembered thousands of horses and reindeers so leaving layers of bones. This accumulation of bones gave rise to a famous legend which we know to be untrue that the horses were driven ov

Basilique de Lalouvesc


Sacr-Cur Paris
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart of Paris commonly known as Sacr-Cur Basilica and often simply Sacr-Cur is a Roman Catholic church and minor basilica dedicated to the Sacred Heart of Jesus in Paris France. A popular landmark and the second most visited monument in Paris the basilica stands at the summit of the butte Montmartre the highest point in the city. Sacr-C

Disneyland Paris
Disneyland Paris formerly Euro Disney Resort is an entertainment resort in Chessy France a new town located 32 km east of the centre of Paris. It encompasses two theme parks many resort hotels Disney Nature Resorts a shopping dining and entertainment complex and a golf course in addition to several additional recreational and entertainment venues. Disneyland Park i

Lake Lucerne
Lake Lucerne is a lake in central Switzerland and the fourth largest in the country.

Hotel Jungfrau
The Jungfrau at 4158 meters is one of the main summits of the Bernese Alps located between the northern canton of Bern and the southern canton of Valais halfway between Interlaken and Fiesch. Together with the Eiger and Mnch the Jungfrau forms a massive wall of mountains overlooking the Bernese Oberland and the Swiss Plateau one of the most distinctive sights of the Swiss Alps. The summit was first reached on August 3 1811 by the Meyer brothers of Aarau and two chamois hunters from Valais. The ascent followed a long expedition over the glaciers and high passes of the Bernese Alps. It was not until 1865 that a more direct route on the northern side was opened. The construction of the Jungfrau railway in the early 20th century which connects Kleine Scheidegg to the Jungfraujoch the saddle between the Mnch and the Jungfrau made the area one of the most-visited places in the Alps. Along with the Aletsch Glacier to the south the Jungfrau is part of the Jungfrau-Aletsch area which was declared a World Heritage Site in 2001.

Titlis
Titlis is a mountain of the Uri Alps located on the border between the cantons of Obwalden and Bern. At 3238 metres above sea level it is the highest summit of the range north of the Susten Pass between the Bernese Oberland and Central Switzerland. It is mainly accessed from Engelberg on the north side and is famous as the site of the worlds first rotating cable car. The cable car system connects Engelberg to the summit of Klein Titlis through the three stages of Gerschnialp Trbsee and Stand. The last part of cable car leads above the glacier. At Klein Titlis it is possible to visit an illuminated glacier cave from an entrance within the cable-car station which also includes shops and restaurants. The Titlis Cliff Walk the highest elevation suspension bridge in Europe opened in December 2012 giving views across the Alps. Many people use Titlis as a cheaper and easier option than Jungfraujoch.

Basilica of Saint-Denis
The Basilica of Saint-Denis is a large medieval abbey church in the city of Saint-Denis now a northern suburb of Paris. The building is of singular importance historically and architecturally as its choir completed in 1144 shows the first use of all of the elements of Gothic architecture.

Chateau-Thierry Monument


Musee Alexandre Dumas


Monument au General Mangin


le Saint-Louis
The le Saint-Louis is one of two natural islands in the Seine river in Paris France. The le Saint-Louis is connected to the rest of Paris by four bridges to both banks of the river and to the le de la Cit by the Pont Saint-Louis. This island was formerly used for the grazing of market cattle and stocking wood.

Paris Zoological Park
The Paris Zoological Park formerly known as the Bois de Vincennes Zoological Park and commonly called the Vincennes Zoo is a facility of the National Museum of Natural History located in the 12th arrondissement of Paris which covers an area of 14.5 hectares in the bois de Vincennes. Designed to complement the Mnagerie du Jardin des plantes this zoo is dedicated to t

Army Museum
The Muse de lArme is a national military museum of France located at Les Invalides in the 7th arrondissement of Paris. It is served by Paris Mtro stations Invalides Varenne and La Tour-Maubourg. The Muse de lArme was created in 1905 with the merger of the Muse dArtillerie and the Muse Historique de lArme. The museums seven main spaces and departments contain collections that span the period from antiquity through the 20th century.

Notre-Dame de Paris
Notre-Dame de Paris referred to simply as Notre-Dame is a medieval Catholic cathedral on the le de la Cit in the 4th arrondissement of Paris. The cathedral was consecrated to the Virgin Mary and considered to be one of the finest examples of French Gothic architecture. Its pioneering use of the rib vault and flying buttress its enormous and colourful rose windows as well as the nat

Pont Alexandre III
The Pont Alexandre III is a deck arch bridge that spans the Seine in Paris. It connects the Champs-lyses quarter with those of the Invalides and Eiffel Tower. The bridge is widely regarded as the most ornate extravagant bridge in the city. It has been classified as a French monument historique since 1975.

Sainte-Chapelle
The Sainte-Chapelle is a royal chapel in the Gothic style within the medieval Palais de la Cit the residence of the Kings of France until the 14th century on the le de la Cit in the River Seine in Paris France.

Notre-Dame de la Garde
Notre-Dame de la Garde in French for Marseilles citizens la bonne mre is a Catholic basilica in Marseille France and the citys best-known symbol. The site of a popular Assumption Day pilgrimage it was the most visited site in Marseille. It was built on the foundations of an ancient fort at the highest natural point in Marseille a 149 m limestone outcropping on the south side of the Old Port

Eiffel Tower
The Eiffel Tower is a wrought iron lattice tower on the Champ de Mars in Paris France. It is named after the engineer Gustave Eiffel whose company designed and built the tower.

Louvre Museum
The Louvre (English LOOV(-r)) or the Louvre Museum is the worlds largest art museum and a historic monument in Paris France. A central landmark of the city it is located on the Right Bank of the Seine in the citys 1st arrondissement. Approximately 38000 objects from prehistory to the 21st century are exhibited over an area of 72735 square meters. In 2019 the Louvre received 9.6 milli

Disneyland Park
Disneyland Park originally Euro Disneyland Park is a theme park found at Disneyland Paris in Marne-la-Valle France. The park opened on 12 April 1992 as the first of the two parks built at the resort. Designed and built by Walt Disney Imagineering its layout is similar to Disneyland Park in California and Magic Kingdom at Walt Disney World in Florida. Spanning 56.656 ha it is dedicate

Palace of Versailles
The Palace of Versailles was the principal royal residence of France from 1682 under Louis XIV until the start of the French Revolution in 1789 under Louis XVI. It is located in the department of Yvelines in the region of le-de-France about 20 kilometres southwest of the centre of Paris.

Chteau de Brie-Comte-Robert
The Chteau de Brie-Comte-Robert is a castle in the town of Brie-Comte-Robert in the Seine-et-Marne dpartement of France.
Sri Lanka
“Ayubowan”- when this greeting echoes in the ears, you know you are being warmly welcomed in the paradise island of Sri Lanka. Hanging like a teardrop from the southern tip of India and set in the heart of the Indian Ocean, Sri Lanka, the ‘Pearl of the Orient’ is truly fascinating and packed with adventure. There is an abundance of highlights to be pleased about, from the incredible beaches to verdant green tea plantations, however, the country, for the past few years, has always been perceived as underrated in terms of tourism. But with people turning experiential and showing keen interest to discover Sri Lanka Attractions and their countless wonders, the country started to move upward on the growth graph, making it to the list of top off-beat destinations in the world. Thanks to the incredible beauty of the places to visit in Sri Lanka that are exceptional in every way. Here, you will see the stunning backdrops where nature is relatively unspoiled, places where Buddhism still flourishes in its original form, abundant wildlife roaming untamed and free in national parks, an ideal coastline with beaches and water sports options, timeless ruins and captivating cultural heritage. It truly is one country that offers an assorted mix of just everything! When vacationing in Sri Lanka, visiting its flourishing capital Colombo is a must-do experience! One of the most popular cities on Sri Lanka tour itineraries, Colombo is not just the capital city of the country but also its thumping heart. While there is an abundance of gorgeous locations to opt for having lip-smacking local food or shop the famous spices, there are these incredible places to visit in Colombo that illustrate both the history and modernity and every effort put into the curious travelling seems worth it. Apart from the rich colonial heritage and street markets that the city is known for, one of the newest and coolest Colombo Tourist Attractions that you should not miss is the Colombo Lotus Tower which is South Asia's tallest freestanding structure, known for offering unobstructed views across the city. The Galle Face Green, the Beira Lake, World Trade Center, National Museum, Vihara Mahadevi Park, Gangaramaya Temple, and the Kelaniya Raja Maha Vihara are some other popular Colombo Attractions. Let us take you a step closer to this tropical island nation, where you can choose between a variety of activities from lazing on the beach to diving in coral reefs, from watching the whales in action to feeding the orphaned elephants. To help you scribble down the best choices for your itinerary, we have listed the Top Sri Lanka Tourist Attractions below.
Beira Lake


Galle Face Green


Gangaramaya Temple
Seema Malaka is a Buddhist temple in Colombo Sri Lanka. The temple is mainly used for meditation and rest rather than for worship. Situated in the Beira Lake the temple was originally constructed in the late 19th century

Temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic
DescriptionSri Dalada Maligawa or the Temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic is a Buddhist temple in the city of Kandy Sri Lanka. It is located in the royal palace complex of the former Kingdom of Kandy which houses the relic of the tooth of the Buddha.

World Buddhist Museum


Ventura Beach


Mirissa Beach


Gadaladeniya Temple Junction


Lake Gregory


Seetha Amman Kovil


Fort_frederick


Jaffna_fort


Dambulla Royal Cave Temple and Golden


Udawalawe National Park Safari


Sigiriya


Horton Plains National Park


Royal Botanical Garden


Kelaniya Raja Maha Viharaya


Yala National Park


Adam's Peak


Ruwanweli Maha Seya


Independence Square


Minneriya National Park


Arugam Bay Beach


Sri Maha Bodhi


Wilpattu National Park


Viharamahadevi Park


Sinharaja Forest Reserve


Nallur Kandaswamy Kovil


Sri Thirukoneswaram Kovil


Lipton's Seat


Diyaluma Falls


Coconut Tree Hill


Polonnaruwa Gal Viharaya


Victoria Park


Udawatta Kele Sanctuary


Ramboda Falls


Bambarakanda Falls


Hikkaduwa Beach


Dutch Museum


Avukana Buddha Statue


Moon Plains


Polonnaruwa Vatadage


Devon Falls


Sri Lankathilake Rajamaha Viharaya


Marble Beach


Kumana National Park


Ravana's Cave


Uppuveli Beach

Vietnam
Dramatic landscapes, lush rice terraces carved into steep hillsides, budding cities, absorbing history, delectable food, pagodas and temples, the high-on-energy vibes - the list of Vietnam Attractions may be long but the magic this country pulls you in with is never-ending. Shrugging off its past, Vietnam no longer bears the scars of the war but today stands out as a top holiday destination in Southeast Asia instead. What is truly amazing about this country is that on one side, it has the busy and booming cities sitting within a little distance from the calm oceans while on the other, the trails lead you to the tranquil world of natural wonders and mounting limestone karsts. Whether you are out on a gratifying food tour in the capital Hanoi, seeing the spectacular rice terraces in Sapa, going gaga over the scenic beauty of Halong Bay and Ninh Binh or soaking in the old imperial city vibes of Hue, you will find an abundance of “must-discover” Vietnam Tourist Attractions to add to your travel bucket list. Over the years, the importance of the capital city Hanoi in Vietnam’s tourism index has peaked dramatically; thanks to its dynamic blend of natural beauty, historical importance and general urban scene of the city which is growing by leaps and bounds. It is the second-largest city in the country after Ho Chi Minh City, located on the banks of the famed Red River. Each of Hanoi Attractions is unique and intriguing in its way- be it the colossal marble structure of Ho Chi Minh Mausoleum, the scenic Temple of Jade Mountain or the Water Puppet Theatre; nothing here ever tends to disappoint. But out of all that makes the city an authentic Vietnamese marvel, the Old Quarter stand out as one of the most favoured Hanoi Tourist Attractions, which is mainly famous for its food scenes and addictive coffee culture, especially for serving the signature egg coffee. Dig in a little deeper to find out the best places to visit in Hanoi and you will be amazed by the local life of the city well-represented through their old houses, lining narrow alleys, delicious street food and the different aromas dominating every corner.For getting the true essence of this versatile country and ideas on things to do, see and experience, go through our list of Top places to visit in Vietnam given below.
Vietnam Museum of Ethnology


Notre Dame Cathedral of Saigon


War Remnants Museum


Bitexco Financial Tower
Bitexco Financial Tower is a skyscraper in Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam. At its completion in 2010 it became the tallest building in Vietnam and kept this status until January 2011

Vietnam History Museum


Ho Chi Minh Mausoleum


St. Josephs Cathedral of Hanoi


Cu Chi Tunnel


Ho Chi Minh City Museum


Cholon


Phước Hải, Đất Đỏ


Angkor Wat


Hoàn Kiếm Lake


Ngoc Son Temple


Tonlé Sap


Vietnam National Fine Arts Museum


National Historical Museum


Museum of Revolution in Jinggang Mountains


Vietnam Military History Museum


Museum of Trade Ceramics


Ong Temple


Notre Dame Cathedral of Saigon


Tonlé Sap


Temple of Literature
Van Mieu is a temple dedicated to Confucius in Hanoi northern Vietnam. The temple also hosts the Imperial Academy Vietnams first national university. The temple was built in 1070 at the time of Emperor Ly Thanh Tong. It is one of several temples in Vietnam which is dedicated to Confucius sages and scholars.

Water Puppet show
Water puppetry is a tradition that dates back as far as the 11th century when it originated in the villages of the Red River Delta area of northern Vietnam. Todays Vietnamese water puppetry is a unique variation of the ancient Asian puppet tradition. The puppets are made out of wood and then lacquered. The shows are performed in a waist-deep pool. A large bamboo rod supports the puppet under the water and is used by the puppeteers who are normally hidden behind a screen to control them. Thus the puppets appear to be moving over the water. When the rice fields would flood the villagers would entertain each other using this form of puppet play.

Presidential Palace
The Presidential Palace of Vietnam located in the city of Hanoi currently is the official residence of the President of Vietnam. Before 1954 it was named the Palace of Governors-general of Indochina.

Ba Dinh Square
Ba Dinh Square is the name of a square in Hanoi where president Ho Chi Minh read the Proclamation of Independence of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam on September 2 1945. It is named after the Ba nh Uprising an anti-French rebellion that occurred in Vietnam in 18861887 as part of the Can Vuong movement.

The Independence Palace
The Independence Palace also publicly known as the Reunification Convention Hall is a landmark in Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam. It was designed by architect Ng Vit Th and was the home and workplace of the President of the Republic of Vietnam.

Imperial Citadel of Thang Long
The Imperial Citadel of Thang Long is a complex of historic buildings associated with the history of Vietnam located in the center of Hanoi Vietnam. Its construction began in 1010 and was completed in early 1011 under the reign of Emperor Ly Thai To of the Ly dynasty.

Thang Long Water Puppet Theatre


Ho Chi Minh Museum Hanoi
The Ho Chi Minh Museum is located in Hanoi Vietnam. Constructed in the 1990s it is dedicated to the late Vietnamese leader Ho Chi Minh and Vietnams revolutionary struggle against foreign powers. Ho Chi Minh museum is located in the Ho Chi Minh complex. The museum documents Ho Chi Minhs life with 8 chronological exhibitions. The first one from 1890 to 1910 modeled after his upbringing hometown and youth. The second exhibit concerns the next ten years of his life when Ho Chi Minh traveled the world seeking a means of freeing Vietnam from the restraints of colonialism.

Halong Bay Cruise
A day cruise will show you a glimpse of Ha Long Bay. Take at least two days to make the most of your trip. You will be able to see the most stunning moments on Ha Long Bay or its greatest wonders sunset sunrise and starry or moonlit night. Booking a Ha Long Bay tour cruise from Hanoi is easy you can deal with a travel agent the cruise line operator or at your hotel in Hanoi. It is advisable to shop around and ask clearly for what is included in the package. Also when you book through an agent or hotel make sure you get a hotline number to contact in an emergency.

Bai Tu Long Bay
Bai Tu Long Bay is a bay in Vietnam. It encompasses Bai Tu Long National Park. Bai Tu Long Bay is northeast of Ha Long Bay. Bai Tu Long bay National Park is a protected area zone in northeastern Vietnam. It was established in 2001 succeeding the former Ba Mun National Conservation Zone. It is one of seven Vietnamese amphibian national parks which has both a terrestrial zone and an aquatic zone. According to legend an immense dragon descended Ha Long Bay millions of years ago dropping numerous eggs. These eggs hatched forming thousands of rocks and islands. The tail of the dragon extended far to the sea forming Bach Long Vi island. As she returned to heaven she said goodbye to her offspring at the Bai Tu Long Bay. Now the park is part of Van Don District 20 km distant from Cai Rong town.

Tran Quoc Pagoda
Tran Quoc Pagoda the oldest Buddhist temple in Hanoi is located on a small island near the southeastern shore of Hanois West Lake Vietnam. The Tran Quoc Pagoda in Hanoi is the oldest pagoda in the city originally constructed in the sixth century during the reign of Emperor Ly Nam De thus giving it an age of more than 1500 years. When founded the temple was named Khai Quoc and was sited on the shores of the Red River outside of the Yen Phu Dyke. When confronted with the rivers encroachment the temple was relocated in 1615 to Kim Ngu islet of Ho Tay where it is now situated. A small causeway links it to the mainland. The last major repair to the temple was undertaken in 1815 when the main sanctuary reception hall and posterior hall of the dead were renovated.

Quan Thanh Temple
Quan Thanh Temple also known as Tran Vu Temple is a Taoist temple in Hanoi Vietnam. Dated to the 11th century the temple was dedicated to Xuan Wu or Tran Vu in Vietnamese one of the principal deities in Taoism. As one of the Four Sacred Temples of the capital Quan Thanh Temple is located near West Lake in a ward of the same name Quan Thanh Ward and is one of the leading tourist attractions in Hanoi. The temples name means Place of the Gods. The name of long street running by the temple is also called Quan Thanh street.

Ba Na Hills
Ba Na Hill Station is a hill station and resort located in the Truong Son Mountains west of the city of Da Nang in central Vietnam. The station advertised as the Da Lat of Danang province by local tourism authorities was founded in 1919 by French colonists.

Linh Ung Pagoda
Linh Ung Pagoda is located in an area known locally as Bai But or Buddhas Sanctuary towards Hoang Sa road. It is the largest pagoda in Central Vietnam. Lady Buddha Da Nang statue is inside Linh Ung pagoda courtyard with a height of 67m being the tallest Buddha statue in Vietnam. It can virtually be seen from every corner of Da Nang becoming an attractive tourist site in the city.

One Pillar Pagoda
The One Pillar Pagoda formally belongs to an architecture complex called Dien Huu tu which means Extend Bless pagoda. The pagoda is a historic Buddhist temple in the central Ba Dnh district Hanoi the capital of Vietnam.

Ho Chi Minh City Hall
Ho Chi Minh City Hall officially called the Ho Chi Minh City Peoples Committee Head Office is the city hall of Ho Chi Minh City Vietnam. The hall was built in 19021908 in a French colonial style by architect Paul Gardens.

Aquatopia Water Park


Golden Dragon Water Puppet Theater


Saigon Opera House


Saigon Central Post Office


Ba Thien Hau Pagoda


Pham Ngu Lao Street


Nguyen Hue Street


Jade Emperor Pagoda


Tao Dan Park


Dong Khoi Street


Suoi Tien Theme Park


Giac Lam Pagoda


Tan Dinh Church


Mariamman Hindu Temple


Thich Quang Duc Monument


Saigon Zoo and Botanical Garden


Binh Quoi Tourist Village


Quan Am Pagoda


Saigon Central Mosque


Crescent Mall


Mekong Delta


Golden Bridge


The Marble Mountains


Le Jardin D'amour


Hoa Lo prison


Japanese Covered Bridge


Phuc Kien Assembly Hall


Tam Coc-Bich Dong


Hoa Lu temple

Bulgaria
Dramatic mountains rival the sun-kissed beaches, the castles stand cheek by jowl with the forts and many museums, while the cities buzz with nightlife, art and culture. Within this fascinating blend of nature, history and modern lifestyle, an unforgettable adventure at Bulgaria tourist attractions is guaranteed. The bold and beautiful Bulgaria is tucked in the Balkans along the coast of the Black Sea and possesses beautiful cities and resort towns that have been luring travellers with their distinctive charm. Whether you are walking over the cobblestone streets while ducking into the museums, taking in the pleasure of picturesque backdrops while exploring the cities of Plovdiv and Sofia, hiking the mighty mountains or hitting the various beaches, there are innumerable places to visit in Bulgaria.  No wonder that the versatile land of Bulgaria has so much to offer to the interested explorers and what better place to start your journey than the capital city itself? Sofia, the official capital and the largest city of Bulgaria nestled at the foothill of Vitosha mountain makes for an excellent base to get introduced to the country’s rich culture and history and the same reflects in an eclectic mix of Roman buildings, Ottoman mosques, old churches and Soviet-era relics scattered all across the capital. Start your capital tour with the two of most famous Sofia Tourist Attractions - Aleksander Nevski Church and 10th-century Rila Monastery that draw visitors and pilgrims galore. Continue your day tours to the other Sofia Attractions like St George Rotunda, the oldest building in modern Sofia, Central Bath and Ivan Vazov National Theatre while you spice up your night outs at the bistros, beer houses, restaurants and live music venues available in the city centres. It is indeed one of the cities that never sleep and with a charm that is too hard to overlook, you’ll be convinced to stick around and explore the incredible places to visit in Sofia. Still wondering why you should visit Bulgaria? Read on and discover the best Bulgaria tourist places you must cover during your exciting trip to the country.
Rila Monastery
The Monastery of Saint Ivan of Rila better known as the Rila Monastery is the largest and most famous Eastern Orthodox monastery in Bulgaria. It is situated in the southwestern Rila Mountains 117 km south of the capital

Ethnographic Institute with Museum


Serdika


Thracian Tomb of Kazanlak
The Thracian Tomb of Kazanlak is a vaulted-brickwork beehive tomb near the town of Kazanlak in central Bulgaria. The tomb is part of a large royal Thracian necropolis in the Valley of the Thracian Rulers near their ancient capital of Seuthopolis in a region where more than a thousand tombs of kings and members of the Thracian aristocracy can be found.

Plovdiv
Plovdiv is a range of historical sights, Thracian fortresses, encompassing Roman amphitheatres and Bulgaria’s Krum the Fearsome, spreading over seven hills along the beautiful Martisa River. Plovdiv’s nightlife is very lively with parties going on for hours, nights full of jazz, indie and oodles of Balkan beers

Ethnographic Museum


Church St. George Rotunda
It’s one of the oldest buildings in modern Sofia and the heart of ancient Serdica. It was built 300 years ago and it is one of a kid building that’s not had a scratch for such amount of time and well preserved. Throughout all the years, it remains to be a home of great site and civilizations. The place is adorned with detailed medieval frescoes that had been done during the Ottoman’s rule when the church was converted into a mosque.

St. Sophia Church
The Church of St. Sofia is situated in the center of Bulgarias capital.it was originally dedicated to the wisdom of God. It is one of the oldest churches in Sofia and its history is closely related to the history of the city. In fact Sofia is named after this church.The basic cross design of the present basilica with its two east towers and one tower-cupola is believed to be the fifth structure to be constructed on the site and was built during the reign of Byzantine Emperor Justinian in the middle of the 6th century (527-565). It is thus a contemporary of the better-known Hagia Sophia church in Constantinople. Fragments of the mosaics from an older structure which found underneath the current church were discovered during archeological excavations. During the Second Bulgarian Empire (spanning the 12th to 14th centuries) the structure acquired the status of a metropolitan church. In the 14th century the church gave its name to the city. In the 16th century during Ottoman rule the church was converted into a mosque the original 12th-century frescoes were destroyed and minarets were added. In the 19th century two earthquakes destroyed one of the minarets and the mosque was abandoned. Restoration work was begun after 1900.

Ivan Vazov National Theater
The Ivan Vazov National Theatre is Bulgaria’s oldest as well as its national theatre. It’s located in the centre of the city and was founded by the artist from Salza I Smyah Company in 1904. Earlier, the theatre was only named National theatre. In 1923, the building was heavily damaged by a fire during an anniversary celebration. But, in 1929, it was reconstructed by a German architect, Martin Dulfer

Saint Nikolas Russian Church (Tsurkva Sveta Nikolai)


Alexander Nevsky Cathedral Sofia
The St. Alexander Nevsky Cathedral is a Bulgarian Orthodox cathedral in Sofia the capital of Bulgaria. Built in Neo-Byzantine style it serves as the cathedral church of the Patriarch of Bulgaria and it is believed to be one of the 50 largest Christian church buildings by volume in the world. It is one of Sofias symbols and primary tourist attractions. The St. Alexander Nevsky Cathedral in Sofi

St Nedelya Church
Sveta Nedelya Church is an Eastern Orthodox church in Sofia the capital of Bulgaria a cathedral of the Sofia bishopric of the Bulgarian Patriarchate. Sveta Nedelya is a medieval church that has suffered destruction through the ages and has been reconstructed many times. The present building of the temple is among the landmarks of Sofia. It was designed by the famous Bulgarian ar

Plovdiv Regional Historical Museum
The Plovdiv Regional Historical Museum is a historical museum in the city of Plovdiv Bulgaria. Established in 1951 it covers the history of Plovdiv from the 15th century until today. It has three departments each occupying a separate historic building.

Church of St Constantine and Helena
The Church of St Constantine and Helena is a church in Plovdiv Bulgaria. It is considered to be among the oldest churches in the city. It was built in 337 at the sight of an ancient pagan temple in the acropolis on one of the fortified hills. The church was named

Plovdiv Regional Ethnographic Museum
The Plovdiv Regional Ethnographic Museum is a museum of ethnography in Plovdiv Bulgaria. Since 1938 it has occupied the 1847 house of the merchant Argir Kuyumdzhioglu in the citys Old Town. The museum features six exhibitions each occupying a separate room.

Bansko
Bansko is one of the most visited places in the country, though it is more popular as a winter sports destination. With numerous expansions the ski fields of Shiligarnika and Chalin Valog make their home in between the fir forests

Pirin National Park
Pirin National Park is like no other in Europe, as it is tagged by UNESCO and rises like a great Balkan Bulwark against the boarders of Greece and Macedonia. Bears and deer stalk the woodlands even today, with wild goats aplenty. The Pirin National Park is Bulgaria’s national treasure which is home to glacier lakes, forests, ridges and peaks. There are many rare species found in the National Park that hides out in the Balkan mountain range and roams the slopes such as wolves, bears, jackals etc. The park also has numerous trekking, cycling, hiking tracks among the alpine meadows

Ancient Theatre in Plovdiv
The theatre is one of the best places to visit in Bulgaria that has been well preserved. It is located on the southern slope between Dzhambaz and Taksim. It was discovered by an archaeologist from Plovdiv and reconstructed in the 20th century. It has about 28 concrete rows of marble seats surrounding the whole arena. The theatre is used for many different performances, but in the past, it was used for hunting, gladiatorial games and was the seat of the Roman province too.

Nessebar
Nessebar is an ancient city which is located on the Bulgarian Black Sea Coast. It’s often known as “Pearl of the Black Sea” as it shimmers like a chunk of pearls. The city has deep-rooted significance as it was ruled by the Byzantine Empire. The city consists of two divisions which is the boast of its ancient ruins and the new one is a modern town consisting of hotels and restaurants etc

Sunny Beach
One of the few things to do in Bulgaria is to visit the sunny beach. The beach is known for its sandy long to soft beaches that flow into the Black Sea. There are numerous visitors who visit the beach and spend time to soak up the sun and taking a swim. The beach is very clean and well preserved from many elements

Tsarevets Fortress
The Tsarevets Fortress is a pride for Bulgaria’s rich historical greatness. It was built on the area where it used to be a palace of tsars. Explore and see the old ancient ruins and lay on remains of over 400 houses and churches. The fortress was built above a great sea level in order to preserve the kingdom from any kind of invasion.

Thracian Tomb of Sveshtari
The tomb was discovered in 1982 and it’s believed to have been built for a royal couple which dates back to the 3rd century. It is one of Bulgaria attractions which have been well preserved by the country. There are amazing interiors which reveals impressive murals and carvings of half-plant females’ figures on the ceiling of the tomb

Vitosha Mountain
The Vitosha Mountain has thick mountain peaks and pine forests which are a popular destination for picnics, day hikes and skiing. For things to do in Sofia there’s no better place to spend a nice activity in the mountains. It promises more adventure than you can imagine and the easiest way to reach here is through Aleko, the mountain ski resort

Buzludzha Monument
Buzludzha Monument was built in 1974 by the Bulgarian army was a great masterpiece of the Soviets. It was an icon of brutalizing design by many artists in charge of the statues during that time. This monument stands right on the area where it was a battlefield between the Bulgarians and the Turks. Now this place is covered in political graffiti and has become quite an unusual attraction in Bulgaria

Koprivshtitsa
Koprivshtitsa is a historic town known for its folk music festivals and architecture. It’s one of the best places to visit in Bulgaria as it’s become a very popular tourist holiday destination. The town boasts of its numerous architectural monuments which are mostly still restoring their original appearance. There are many stories on how the town found, one was a crossroads to town Pirdop, Ziatarica and another tell us that it was founded by refugees.

St. Alexander Nevski Cathedral
Sofia’s grand architecture dates back to the 1880s and the interior scale of this cathedral are breathtaking. It’s the second largest cathedral in the Balkan region giving room for 10,000 people inside the cathedral. The cathedral was built straight after the Ottomans were overthrown. It was a monument of dedication to the Russian soldiers which helped in the cause of this liberation

Vitosha Boulevard
Vitosha Boulevard is one of the fanciest streets in the city where all the fashion houses and boutiques are laid and clustered. It’s not just a street to shop, but also a place for tourists to see arresting views of the Vitosha Mountains which is covered in snow throughout the year.

St. Sofia Church
It’s the second oldest church in the capital city dating back to the 4th century. The church was built on several other places. During the 2nd century, it was the site for Roman theatre and in the next few decades, many other churches were also constructed but later destroyed by the Goths and Huns. Inside the church, there are remnants of this church and tombs which dates back from 1500 years ago

Boyana Church
The Boyana Church is a medieval church located on the outskirts of Sofia. In 1979, it was added the list of UNESCO World Heritage Site and became one of the top places to visit in Sofia. The church looks very dreamlike place as it’s tugged in a grove of tall soft trees in a quiet suburb city

National Institute of Archaeology
The National Institute of Archaeology is an archaeological museum located in the capital city of Bulgaria. It occupies the building formerly known as Koca Mahmut Pasa Camil. The museum was officially opened in 1905 and since then it’s become Sofia tourist attractions. It houses some of the best collections in prehistory hall, treasury, main hall and medieval section

National Historical Museum
The National Historical Museum is the largest museum in Sofia which was founded on 5 May 1973. The museum currently contains 650,000 objects related to history, fine arts, archaeology, and ethnography. There’s also a library, cafe, cloakroom and a souvenir shop. The collections in this museum date back to prehistoric times up to modern day.

Borisova Gradina
Borisova gradina is one of the oldest parks in Sofia making it Sofia attractions after the Bulgarian revival. It was constructed in 1884 and named after Bulgarian Tsar Boris III. It embraces three periods under the name the Alsatian Joseph Frei, the Swiss Daniel Neff, and then the Bulgarian Georgi Dutev.
Kyrgyzstan
Kyrgyzstan is a beautiful landlocked country defined by its raw beauty of nature defined by its unspoilt mountainscapes, pristine valleys, celestial lakes, rare flora and fauna and so much more. What further adds to the rich rural essence of the country are the welcoming homestays, guest houses run by the happy locals and the nomadic yurt-dwellings and, therefore, you will find it easier to see why the Kyrgyzstan attractions are unlike any other in entire Central Asia. Ranging from the never freezing Lake Issyk-Köl, the most spectacular horse treks and yurt-lodging near the Song Kol Lake to the lesser-explored gems like Altyn Arashan and Ala Archa with Bishkek at an easy escaping distance, the Places to visit in Kyrgyzstan are filled with nothing but a sense of bewilderment. While many may choose the capital city as their base to start the Kyrgyzstan journey, others interested in history and hiking will find plenty of interesting Places to visit in Bishkek to keep themselves hooked in the city for a longer time. The city has very well reserved the essence of Kyrgyz culture and Soviet architecture and the same is well reflected in its variety of museums, priceless statues, the rows of buzzing bazaars and many other unmissable Bishkek attractions.This ethnic country has seen a spike in its tourism. It is mostly because of its ancient attractions, natural wonders, adventurous activities, and cultural festivals. There is something for you to enjoy and make memories from. Kyrgyzstan tourist attractions include historical sites, natural wonders, cultural events, and outdoor adventures.To discover and experience the most incredible side of Kyrgyzstan, you should visit at the right time. Different seasons in Kyrgyzstan offer unique travel experiences. If you want to explore the best Kyrgyzstan tourist places, choose the summer season. It is the busiest time of the year when the streets, attractions, and sites are filled with people all around.The summer season begins in June and ends in September offering countless hiking, photography, sightseeing opportunities, and Kyrgyzstan attractions. You can trek the beautiful trails, click the lush green landscapes of the surroundings, and explore the ancient & cultural attractions of Kyrgyzstan. It is also the best time to enjoy horseback riding and eagle hunting.If you want to visit during the quiet season, you must visit in spring and autumn. These two are the most underrated seasons in Kyrgyzstan. Spring and autumn are best for a peaceful escape into nature away from routine life. With a handful of places to visit and explore, you can spend a serene holiday in Kyrgyzstan during these seasons.One of the lowest seasons in Kyrgyzstan is winter. Fewer travelers choose to travel during this time as there is mainly snow everywhere. However, if you want to witness the snowfall, snow-covered places, and cultural festivals, December to February is the best time to visit Kyrgyzstan.No matter what you like to experience in Kyrgyzstan, you have countless things to do and see. Its cities have so much to offer to travelers of all ages. From places to visit in Bishkek to beautiful attractions in Osh, Kyrgyzstan is blessed with authentic experiences.Kyrgyzstan’s culinary delights are equally popular among tourists. It reflects the history and nomadic culture of the Kyrgyz people. Some must-have dishes are Beshbarmak, Plov, Manti, Shashlik, Dimlama, etc. You can have them at numerous restaurants and cafes in Kyrgyzstan. These eateries fall within some of the best places to visit in Kyrgyzstan.Also, many bars and clubs in Kyrgyzstan offer cozy evening vibes and fantastic nightlife with exotic food & drinks. Kyrgyzstan has undiscovered places, thrilling pursuits, and indulgent getaways for you to plan a vacation.Unquestionably, due to favourable factors, Kyrgyzstan’s tourism is dramatically growing year on year. What is stopping you from exploring the spectacular country? Whether you want to hike, camp and horse trek through the country’s eye-catching scenery or discover new experiences in the uncharted areas, Kyrgyzstan has a way to steal your hearts the moment you step down on its land. Read through our compiled list of Kyrgyzstan tourist attractions and spots below and start planning your tour before the crowds amass this under-explored gem of Central Asia.
Kashka Suu Ski Resort
Kashka-suu ski resort is located 2100 meters above sea level 35 km from the capital of Kyrgyzstan - Bishkek.Fresh air stunning panorama of the the Great Kyrgyz Range and the Chuy valley great tracks and the quality of service contribute to a good winter holiday in Kyrgyzstan.  There is one aerial ropeway chairlift and ropeway trackback lift. The ropeway chairlift is 1165 to 1365 m with elevation ranging from 110 to 380 m with an average speed of the cable car of about 2 m  sec. Length of the ropeway trackback is 200 to 860 m with elevation ranging from 60 to 260 meters tow lift is moving at an average speed of 2.5 m  sec.

Osh Bazaar Bishkek
If you want to feel the culture of a place then visiting Bazaar over there is the easiest and appropriate way. There are many old Bazaars in the world. One of them is Osh Bazaar in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. Bishkek is the oldest city of Kyrgyzstan and so Osh Bazaar is oldest Bazaar of Kyrgyzstan and entire Central Asia region. It is one of the largest Bazaars in Bishkek as well. You can buy anything like food products, any household items, clothes, souvenirs, musical instruments or any other item here at Osh Bazaar

Bishkek Park
Bishkek Park is the up-market mall in Bishkek with luxury stores and fine restaurants - not as fancy as other malls in larger cities but nonetheless one of the better places to shop in Bishkek.

Burana Tower


Manas Ordo


Ala-Too Square
Ala-Too Square is the central square in Bishkek Kyrgyzstan. The square was built in 1984 to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Kirghiz Soviet Socialist Republic at which time a massive statue of Lenin was placed in the squares center. The square was known as Lenin Square until Kyrgyzstan gained its Independence from the USSR in 1991. The statue of Lenin was moved in 2003 to a smaller square in the city and a new statue called Erkindik was installed in its place. Later in 2011 it was replaced by a statue of Manas to celebrate the 20th anniversary of Kyrgyzstans independence.

Philarmonic Hall Named Toktogul Satylganov


Ala Archa National Park
Ala Archa National Park is an alpine national park in the Tian Shan mountains of Kyrgyzstan and located 40 km south of Bishkek. The park, which includes the gorge of the Ala-Archa River and the mountains surrounding it, is a popular destination point for weekend picnickers, hikers, horse trekkers, skiers as well as mountain climbers looking for challenging ice, rock and mixed routes. The park is open all year round, although the most popular season is late summer and early fall. Every May 1, the Alpinada festival sees hundreds of people camp out in the valley and climb Mount Komsomolets. Visit to Ala Archa is an awesome day activity full of pristine nature and peace. The park is snow covered in winter and truly stunning

Juma Mosque
A new landmark for the Central Asian nations capital the mosque has 7500 square meters of closed space that allows 9000 people to pray at the same time. In both the open and closed spaces the mosque can accommodate 30000 people at once. Along with prayer areas the mosque has a large parking lot classrooms a conference hall for Islamic studies and a dining hall. The mosque has four minarets with a height of 68 meters each and three balconies on each minaret. Two huge chandeliers hang from the domes of the mosque that have been decorated with Ottoman handicrafts. A 37-meter-high large dome which is 23 meters in diameter on the inside and 25 meters across on the outside tops the mosque. White marble from Turkey was used in the structure as well.

Kyrgyzstan National Drama Theater
This is the State National Academic Drama Theater.A theater or music performance is a great way to experience Bishkeks culture for yourself and to get to know Kyrgyzstan a little better.

Kyrgyz State Medical Academy bishkek
The Kyrgyz State Medical Academy full name I.K. Akhunbaev Kyrgyz State Medical Academy was opened on 1 September 1939 in the city of Bishkek Kyrgyzstan with the recruitment of 200 students.  The establishment of the institute was contributed to by the First Moscow Medical Institute high medical schools of Saint-Petersburg Almaty Tashkent and other medical institutions.

Victory Square


Manas International Airport
Manas International Airport is the main international airport in Kyrgyzstan located 25 kilometres north-northwest of the capital Bishkek.  The airport was constructed as a replacement for the old Bishkek airport that was located to the south of the city and named after the Kyrgyz epic hero Manas at the suggestion of writer and intellectual Chinghiz Aitmatov. The first plane landed at Manas in October 1974 with Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin on board. Aeroflot operated the airports first scheduled flight to MoscowDomodedovo on 4 May 1975.

Manas Complex
Manas Complex is said to be the final resting place of Kyrgyz epic hero Manas. Manas is a quite loved hero in the history of Kyrgyzstan along with his wife and together they are said to have strong influence on Kyrgyzstan over 1000 years ago. Manas is also called Manas the Generous. Manas complex attracts visitors in quite a good number because it represents the best side of Kyrgyz architecture, lifestyle, folk style and beliefs. They also get to see famous monuments of deer horns which is the national symbol of national patroness.

Osh Bazaar
Osh Bazaar is one of the largest bazaars in Bishkek Kyrgyzstan. It is located on the west side of town and is not far from the Western Bus Station. At Osh Bazaar one can buy food products almost any common household good clothes souvenirs and even musical instruments. Kyrgyz national clothes are sold in the national goods section called Kyyal and may be special ordere

Panfilov Park Bishkek
Panfilov Park is a city memorial located near Old Square and Manas Square in Bishkek the capital of the Kyrgyz Republic. The park bears the name of Hero of the Soviet Union and the chairman of the Military Committee of the Kirghiz SSR Ivan Panfilov. The park was made in the shape of a star when it was built.

Oak Park


Museum of Fine Arts


Dordoy Bazaar Bishkek
Dordoy Bazaar also spelled as Dordoi Bazaar has been crowned as Asias greatest market place. It a wholesale and retail market of consumer goods dispatched by China. The existence of the market can be dated back to the year 1992. The market is divided into different sections selling various consumer goods and commodities such as clothing furniture toys automotive supplies etc. One can also find occasional produce vendors accommodating the market.

State History Museum
The Kyrgyz State History Museum is a museum located in Bishkek Kyrgyzstan. The museum contains several exhibits about the cultural heritage of the Kyrgyz people whose sculptures and objects dating from antiquity to the end of the 20th century. It is one of the most important museums in Central Asia.

Bishkek City Tour
Bishkek, often referred to as the 'Green City' has over 20 parks and a botanical garden. A city tour takes you through some beautiful places like Ala Too Square, which is in the heart of the city and a recreational point of the locals especially during festivals; Monuments of Bishkek, Osh Bazar, Theatres and Concert Halls in Bishkek, Bishkek Park Mall, etc

Issyk Kul Lake
Issyk Kul is a beautiful lake in the Tien Shan mountains and it happens to be the tenth largest lake and the second largest saline water lake in the world. Looking across its waters to the other side, it seems like an ocean. However, what will boggle your mind is that while you feel like you are looking out over an ocean, you can see snowcapped mountains in the background. There are numerous beach activities and water sports options at Issyk Kul. Relax on the lake side or take a refreshing walk around enjoying the serenity of the mountains or the blue tranquility of Issyk Kul waters. Issyk Kul offers a host of water activities like jet skiing, glider flight, para-sailing, water-slides, motorboat rides etc

Karakol/Jeti-Oguz Gorge
Jeti-Oguz Gorge in the Issyk Kul Region, is located 28 kilometers to the south-west of the town of Karakol. Its name in the Kyrgyz language means “Seven bulls”. The name is symbolic, because there is a 35 km long wall of seven huge red-brown cliffs resembling furious bulls standing together. In front of the cliffs there are flat mountain slopes, thickly overgrown with grass and pine trees. Jeti-Oguz is also famous for its hot springs with water enriched with radon and hydrogen sulfide. The water in springs is useful for the treatment of rheumatism, gastric and nervous diseases. Rising higher, you can reach Kok-Dzhayyk with wonderful views of the gorge, or the Valley of Flowers strewn with poppies. At the upper part of Jets-Oguz there are also mountain lakes and roaring waterfalls. One can stay in Karakol for a night or two and have an awesome picnic at Jeti Oguz gorge

Kashka-Suu Ski Resort
Kashka-Suu is a beautiful sight seeing spot in the Osho mountains. It is located about 35 kms from Bishkek and at an altitude of 2,100 meters. Its one of the best ski resorts in Kyrgyzstan in winters and offers a stunning view of Great Kyrgyz Range and the Chuy valley. The resort facilities include a restaurant, bar, sauna, open air cafe, two conference halls, a winter skating rink, bandstand, playground, parking for 100 cars, as well as the 1.5 kilometer chairlift that will take you to the observation deck at the height of 2200 m, as well as six ski runs of various levels of difficulty

Supara
Falcon hunting and Horse riding show: The Kyrgyz have preserved rich and diverse cultural heritage for centuries. Hunting has been an ancient method of surviving the extremities of harsh climate and terrains over centuries. Witness the awesome maneuvers of hunting falcons trained by Kyrgyz nomads and watch the thrilling horse riding stunts of nomadic Kyrgyz men on their magnificent and graceful horses.

Kegety Gorge in Chuy Region
Kegety Gorge stretches for 30 km along the northern slope of the Kyrgyz Ala-Too Mountain range, 75 km from the city of Bishkek. A rough stream with many tributaries flows at the bottom of the gorge. The gorge is rich in flora and fauna. Green meadows give way to thickets of small shrubs of barberry, ash and hips, followed by spruce forest standing right on the slopes. Travelers often come here not only to enjoy the fresh mountain air, but also to collect medicinal herbs and berries

Skazka (Fairy Tale) Canyon in Issyk Kul Region
On the southern shore of Lake Issyk-Kul, about 4 km from the village of Tosor there is an unusual place - Skazka (Fairy Tale) Canyon. The canyon was named due to its bizarre rocky landscape, which for many years has been transformed by wind into fabulous sculptures and formations. Some formations in "Skazka" have been named for their similarity to well-known objects. For example, one set of ridges in the canyon is named "The Chinese Wall" due to its similarity to the Great Wall of China. You  can also find what appear to be statues of a hippopotamus, snake, dragon, sleeping giant and even whole castles. Because the different rocks have amazing colors, the rocky statues not only have unusual shapes, but also magical colors. Its an irresistible place to visit around the Issyk Kul.

Naryn Canyon in Jalal-Abad Region
Naryn Canyon is located south to the Toktogul reservoir over Kok-Bel Pass at an altitude of 1000 meters above sea level. It bears the name of the eponymous river, which flows in this place and is the longest river in Kyrgyzstan. Travelers can enjoy the scenery of the canyon driving on the highway Bishkek-Osh. Huge river framed by rocky mountainous terrain will surprise you and will not leave indifferent

Ala Too Square
Ala too square is the central place in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. It is a place where you can spend time, take pictures and in the evening you can enjoy musical fountain show as well. Ala too square was built in 1984 to celebrate 60th anniversary of Kyrgyz SSR. At that point of time a huge statue of Lenin was placed in the center of the square. This statue was moved in 2003 and a new statue was placed here which was again replaced in 2011 by statue of Manas to celebrate 20th anniversary of Kyrgyzstan’s independence. Ala too square offers you a great time when you are here.

Sary Chelek Biosphere Reserve
The Sary-Chelek Biosphere Reserve has the best environmental elements of Kyrgyzstan in one place, with a series of forests, meadows and lakes. Central to this large biosphere reserve which is home to more than 1,000 species of plants and 160 species of bird, is the beautiful cobalt-blue lake of Sary-Chelek. The lake is surrounded by forest that turns yellow in autumn giving the lake its Kyrgyz name that translates as ‘yellow bucket’. This Biosphere reserve was established in 1959 and in 1978 it was designated as world Biosphere Reserve by UNESCO. The reserve stretches up to 60 KM and is divided into two sections known as Arkyt and Sary Chelek

Konorchek Canyon
Konorchek canyon is one of the beautiful landscapes in Kyrgyzstan. Located 125 KM away from the capital city Bishkek, Konorchek reside in the boom gorge. Konorchek is full of red stones that you can see for miles, so you may find your walk never ending if you walk to the end of these stones. But one thing you need to be aware of and you may enjoy as well is the weather here. Summers are hot, winters are cold but without snowfalls. So choose your time to go to the canyon as per your liking and physical ability.

Nikolai Przhevalsky Museum
Nikolai Mikhaylovoch Przhevalsky was a Russian geographer and explorer. He explored Central and East Asia and made this part known to the western world. From 1870 to 1883 he made four journeys to Central Asia. In his name was made this Nikolai Przhevalsky museum which is 12 KM away from north of Karakol on the Mikhaylovka inlet along with his grave. The museum is right there in the site where Nikolai had built the house for himself close to the lake. The museum was completed in 1957 along with a formal park dedicated to him. The museum is a neo classical single story building. The museum shows the details of the life of the great explorer Nikolai who died on the shores of Issyk Kul lake. The museum features sketches of local people, engravings, and books with details that show expeditions of Nikolai on a base relief map of Central Asia

Song Kol Lake
Song Kol Lake is the second largest lake after Issyk Kul Lake in Kyrgyzstan. With fresh water Song Kol Lake sits at the height of 3016m. Another high altitude alpine lake in Kyrgyzstan, Song Kol is surrounded by 3500m peaks and yurts which belong to herders from the nearby villages. The alpine lake in the Tien Shan mountains is a perfect destination to reach to. Horse riding is one of the cool things to do in Song Kol. So it is one of the favorite destination while one is in Bishkek. But there is snow all year around Song Kol lake. So the best time to visit the lake is from July to September in the summers.

Dordoy Bazaar
The Dordoy Bazaar near Bishkek happens to be the largest public market place and shopping centre in Central Asia. Dordoy Bazaar opened up in 1992 as wholesale market across the country and since then the bazaar’s popularity kept rising transforming it in the monument of raw commerce today. It stretches for more than a kilometre on the north-eastern outskirts of the Kyrgyz capital. It is one of the main entrepots for reaching Chinese consumers goods to retailers in Kyrgyzstan, Russia, and Uzbekistan. Dordoy Bazaar is big employer. Around 20,000 people make their living at the market

Mountain Sulaiman Too
Mountain Sulaiman Too was the first object in Kyrgyzstan which became a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It is located in the city of Osh in Kyrgyzstan and it rises to 175m above it. Since old times this place has been sacred especially for Muslims and now it is considered a place of pilgrimage thus attracts a lot of pilgrims. Sulaiman is a prophet as mentioned in Qur’an and this mountain has a shrine that supposedly marks his grave. There is a popular belief about this shrine that a woman who ascend to the shrine on top and crawl through an opening across the holy rock will give birth to a healthy child as per legend. Another reason why it is considered a major place of pilgrimage is that there is a popular belief that the Prophet Mohammed himself prayed at the top of the peak of the mountain

Tash Rabat
Tash Rabat is a well preserved stone caravanserai sitting at the height of 3200 meters. Tash Rabat is said to be constructed in 15th century, on the old trade route from Central Asia to China. Tash Rabat is largest stone structure of its time and is still noted for its size, building material and its layout which is example of great symmetry. This is why Tash Rabat is considered Kyrgyzstan’s most remarkable monument. Today Tash Rabat is a Silk Road monument of great excellence. It is one of the most interesting sites in Central Asia. Its location is also very interesting. This centrally domed structure has 31 rooms which includes cavities in the central hall. All the rooms are dome shaped. Tash Rabat is about 520 KM from Bishkek

Peak Lenin
Lenin Peak also known as Ibn Sina Peak, rises to 7,134 metres in Gorno-Badakhshan on the border of Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan, and is the second-highest point of both countries. This peak is probably one of the highest yet easiest peak to climb in the world, that's why it attracts hundreds of visitors every year. It was discovered in 1871. It was then named Mount Kaufmann after Konstantin Kaufman, the first Governor-General of Turkestan. And in 1928 it was named Lenin peak after the great leader of Soviet Union Vladimir Lenin.

Kayaking in Kyrgyzstan
Kayaking – Kyrgyzstan surrounded by rivers and lakes, hence kayaking is much popular. In July and August glaciers melt, so the water level rises making it the best season for kayaking
Serbia
Boisterous, diverse, welcoming, cluster of cultures and histories, captivating landscapes and a hell lot of entertainment- everything you have ever heard about the Places to visit in Serbia is true. This landlocked country is located in the heart of the Balkans and is still delightfully off the usual tourist trail. Whether you want to check out the feisty Serbian spirit in Belgrade’s world-class nightlife or Novi Sad’s epic EXIT Festival, the gastronomic festivals, take a closer look at the historical richness of the country, check out the spectacular ski slopes, step inside the mysterious caves or sail down Serbia’s crystal clear lakes or rejuvenate yourself at one of Serbia’s mineral-rich dips and spas, the Serbia Attractions are indeed the surprising inclusions on any European itinerary.Well, it goes without a doubt that the entire country of Serbia is beautiful but to start with its crowning jewel, the capital Belgrade, it is a city that is sociable, high on energy and never sleeps. While the present-day capital teems with new urban hangouts like bars and clubs that support an amazing nightlife that never seems to stop, there are several other places to visit in Belgrade that are steeped in rich cultural and historic heritage including the Military Museum, the White Palace and the Nikola Tesla Museum to name a few. Not to mention, one of the famous historic Belgrade tourist attractions is the old Belgrade Fortress which stands out as a symbol of the city’s pompous history. Whatever interests you, be it history, food, leisure and entertainment or the arts and culture, Belgrade will offer everything to make you feel like you belong here!Once you head out to discover magnificent Serbia, you are guaranteed to leave with lasting impressions of unrivalled experiences never seen or done before. To help you figure out the best to visit in the country, we have compiled the topmost Serbia tourist places and spots along with some of the unmissable Belgrade Attractions listed below. Now is the time to go and explore the fascinating corners of Serbia!
Novi Sad Synagogue
Novi Sad Synagogue is one of many cultural institutions in Novi Sad Serbia in the capital of Serbian the province of Vojvodina. Located on Jevrejska Street in the city center the synagogue has been recognized as a historic landmark. It served the local Neolog congregation.

Petrovaradin Fortress
Petrovaradin Fortress nicknamed Gibraltar onof the Danube is a fortress in the town of Petrovaradin itself part of the City of Novi Sad Serbia. It is located on the right bank of the Danube river. The cornerstone of the present-day southern part of the fortress was laid on 18 October 1692 by Charles Eugne de Cro. Petrovaradin Fortress has many tunnels as well as 16 km of uncollapsed u

Krusedol Monastery


Danube Park
Danube Park or Dunavski Park is an urban park in the downtown of Novi Sad the capital of the Vojvodina Province Serbia. Formed in 1895 it is protected as the natural monument and is one of the symbols of the city.

Belgrade Fortress
Belgrade Fortress consists of the old citadel and Kalemegdan Park on the confluence of the River Sava and Danube in an urban area of modern Belgrade the capital of Serbia. It is located in Belgrades municipality of Stari Grad. Belgrade Fortress was declared a Monument of Culture of Exceptional Importance in 1979 and is protected by the Republic of Serbia. It is the mo

Saborna crkva-Orthodox Church


Brankos Bridge
Brankos bridge is the second-largest bridge of Belgrade Serbia connecting the city center with New Belgrade across Sava river. Built in 1956 on the foundations of the 1934 King Alexander Bridge which was destroyed in World War II it reconnected BelBrankos bridge is the second-largest bridge of Belgrade Serbia connecting the city center with New Belgrade across Sava river. Built in 1956 on the foundations of the 1934 King Alexander Bridge which was destroyed in World War II it reconnected Belgrade and Zemun as the only motorway bridge at the time. After several official and unofficial names the present name stuck after the Brankova Street which extends into the bridge from the direction of the old section of Belgrade.

Kalemegdan Park
Kalemegdan Park or simply Kalemegdan is the largest park and the most important historical monument in Belgrade. It is located on a 125-metre-high cliff at the junction of the River Sava and the Danube. Its name is formed from the two Turkish words Kale and archaic word of Turkish origin megdan.

St. Sava Temple
SAVA TEMPLE STUDIO is set in Vraar. The property was built in 1934 and features air-conditioned accommodation with free WiFi. The apartment has 1 bedroom a flat-screen TV with cable channels an equipped kitchen with a fridge and a stovetop a washing machine and 1 bathroom with a shower. For added convenience the property can provide towels and bed linen for an extra cha

Karaore Monument


Karaorev Grad


Vojvodina


Skadarlija
Skadarlija is famous Belgrade attractions and also known as Belgrade’s quarter. The vintage street is full of restaurants, cafes and bars all dotted along the cobblestone. It’s located in the old town of Belgrade and it’s known as the Bohemian quarter of Belgrade. Skadarlija is the second most visited tourist attractions in Belgrade after Kalemegdan. One of the most famous streets in Skadarlijais is Skadarska Street.

Republic Square
Republic Square or Square of the Republic is one of the central town squares and an urban neighborhood of Belgrade located in the Stari Grad municipality. It is the site of some of Belgrades most recognizable public buildings including the National Museum the National Theatre and the statue of Prince Michael.

Knez Mihailova


National Museum of Serbia
The National Museum in Belgrade is the largest and oldest museum in Belgrade Serbia. It is located in the central zone of Belgrade on a square plot between the Republic Square formerly Theatre Square and three streets ika Ljubina Vasina and Laze Paua. Its main facade is on the Republic Square and the official address ia 1a Republic Square.

Museum of Yugoslavia
The Museum of Yugoslavia is a public history museum in Belgrade the capital of Serbia. It chronicles the period of Kingdom of Yugoslavia and Socialist Yugoslavia as well as the life of Josip Broz Tito. Titos grave is located in one of the Museum buildings.

Bajrakli Mosque Belgrade
The Bajrakli Mosque is a mosque in Belgrade the capital of Serbia. It is located in Gospodar Jevremova Street in the neighbourhood of Dorol. It was built around 1575 and is the only mosque in the city out of the 273 that had existed during the time of the Ottoman Empires rule of Serbia.

House of Flowers


Fruska Gora Monasteries


Fruska Gora


Zemun
This is a must place to visit in Belgrade as you will find a completely different aura compared to the big city. The small town has nice walkways, hills, towers. The Romans came to rule the province in around 15 AD. And, by the 12th century, the town was conquered by the Kingdom of Hungary and was given to Durad Brankovic, the Serbian despot

Sremski Karlovci
Sremski Karlovci is a small town and the best places to visit in Serbia. It has a population of only about 8,750 inhabitants. The town was first mentioned in the historical documents in 1308. Everything in this town is in a single square. People come here t to see the historical importance of Karlovci and see other attractions such as Branko’s town, Four Lions Fountain, Vojvodina etc.

Usce


Sirogojno


Ethnographic Museum
The Ethnographic Museum is a museum located in Belgrade the capital of Serbia. It is one of the oldest museums in the Balkans. The Ethnographic Museum in Belgrade fulfills its mission together with the efforts of various stakeholders in the domain of presentation revitalization and development of crafts in Serbia.

Nikola Tesla Museum
The Nikola Tesla Museum is a science museum located in the central area of Belgrade the capital of Serbia. It is dedicated to honoring and displaying the life and work of Nikola Tesla as well as the final resting place for Tesla. It holds more than 160000 original documents over 2000 books and journals over 1200 historical technical exhibits over 1500 photographs and photo plate

Temple of Saint Sava
The Church of Saint Sava is a Serbian Orthodox church which sits on the Vraar plateau in Belgrade Serbia. It was planned as the bishopric seat and main cathedral of the Serbian Orthodox Church. The church is dedicated to Saint Sava the founder of the Serbian Orthodox Church and an important figure in medieval Serbia. It is built on the presumed location of St. Savas graveIt is the largest Orthodox church in Serbia one of the largest Eastern Orthodox churches and it ranks among the largest churches in the world. It is the most recognisable building in Belgrade and a landmark as its dominating dome resembles that of the Hagia Sophia after which it had been modelled

Oplenac
St Georges Church also known as Oplenac is the mausoleum of the Serbian and Yugoslav royal house of Karaorevi located on top of the Oplenac Hill in the town of Topola Serbia. The church of Oplenac was founded by King Peter I of Yugoslavia. Many members of the royal house are buried in the church in the crypt beneath the church or in the church yard.

Royal Compound
The Royal compound is a complex of residences built for the Karaorevi royal family between 1924 and 1937. The compound is located in the Dedinje neighborhood a prestigious area of Belgrade Serbia. It consists of two primary residences The Royal Palace and the White Palace.

Dunav (The Danube)


Orthodox Cathedral of St Nicholas


Millennium Tower or Gardos Tower
Gardo Tower also known as Millennium Tower is a memorial tower located in Zemun city of Belgrade in Serbia. It was built and officially opened on 20 August 1896 to celebrate a thousand years of Hungarian settlement in the Pannonian plain. The Millennium project included seven monuments in total all over the Hungarian part of Austro-Hungary with Gardo Tower being the southernmost. They are all different and not all of them are towers.  As part of Old Core of Zemun and also located in the middle of the Zemun Fortress tower is protected both as Spatial Cultural-Historical Unit of Great Importance and as a Protected Monument of Culture

Sirmium
Sirmium was a city in the Roman province of Pannonia located on the Sava river on the site o

Open air museum Old village Sirogojno


Risovaa Cave
Risovaa Cave is situated at the very entrance of the town of Aranelovac in central Serbia around 17 m above the Kubrnica river valley. It is one of the most important archaeological sites of the Palaeolithic in Serbia besides the Gradac Cave near Kragujevac. Its discovery confirmed the assumed existence of the Paleolithic culture south of the Sava-Danube line and provided new informa

Monastery Jazak


Great War Island
Great War Island is a river island in Belgrade the capital of Serbia. It is located at the confluence of the Sava and Danube rivers. Though uninhabited the island is part of Belgrade City proper and belongs to the city municipality of Zemun. Great War Island is located at the mouth of the Sava river into the Danube in the Danubes widening between the Kalemegdan fortress as the ending section of the Terazije ridge of northernmost part of Sumadija on the west and the low easternmost section of the Syrmia plain the modern Usce neighborhood of New Belgrade on the south.

Lake Ledinci
Lake Ledinci was a small artificial lake on the mountain of Fruka Gora near Novi Sad in the Srem region of the Vojvodina province of Serbia.Lake Ledinci was a small artificial lake on the mountain of Fruka Gora near Novi Sad in the Srem region of the Vojvodina province of Serbia.

Mecavnik


Uvac
The Uvac is an international trans-boundary river rising under Golija mountain and Peter plateau then flowing through southwestern Serbia and cross into eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina where after 115 km it finally meets the Lim river from the right howe

Gostilje
Gostilje is a village in the municipality of ajetina western Serbia. According to the 2011 census thGostilje is a village in the municipality of ajetina western Serbia. According to the 2011 census the village has a population of 242 people.

Republic Square
The Republic Square or the Square of the Republic is one of the central town squares and an urban neighborhood of Belgrade located in the Stari Grad municipality. It is the site of some of Belgrades most recognizable public buildings including the National Museum the National Theatre and the statue of Prince Michael. The square is located less than 100 meters away from Terazije the designated center of Belgrade to which it is connected by the streets of Kolarceva and Knez Mihailova. Many people erroneously consider the Square of the Republic to be the center of the city.

belgrade
Belgrade is the capital city of Serbia with an arresting style of old and new buildings. Belgrade is bisected into two cities: the old town and the new town. The new city was constructed during the time of the Soviet Era. The city has a little bit of everything including the Kalemegdan Fortress, colourful facade, cafes and bars heaving throughout the night with crowd terraces and many other things to see and do in the city

Church of St. Sava
The Monolithic building dominates the whole landscape of the city with its beauty. It’s built on an area where St. Sava’s relics were burnt by the Ottoman. It’s one of the largest Eastern Orthodox Church in the country and ranks to be the world’s largest buildings. The church’s architecture is centrally planned and constructed with a beautiful dome supported on an arcade

House on the Drina
This is the living example of architectural intimacy. It’s been a nameless cabin for forty years and was built by a group of swimmers who wanted a spot to rest. It’s said that at the time of construction, the material was rowed to the place by boat, and nothing has changed till today, the house still sits on the rock which now turns to be Serbia tourist places

Studenica Monastery
Serbia is a place filled with mesmerising monasteries, and this is one of the greatest examples of medieval architecture and the best of them all. It was built in the 12th century and has two principal monuments: the Church of King and the Church of the Virgin which was both built of white marble. It is located in the centre of Serbia founded by St. Simeon. His remains along with his wife Anastasia are in the monastery

Subotica City Hall
The Subotica City Hall has not been given of much importance but it’s known to be of the best example of Art Nouveau structure in the country. The city hall was built between 1908 and 1912 which stand at a height of 76m. It is a building of beauty which was is a mix of Art Nouveau and something Gaudi

Josip Broz Tito’s Grave
The site is Serbia tourist attractions as it’s the tomb of the great communist leader, Josip Broz Tito. He was the ruler of Yugoslavia for 40 years, and kept the country in rule and intact and prevented it from much of the conflict that happened around. Some thought of him as being authoritarian while other considered him to be a dictator. As he’s buried in Belgrade, the tomb is built in his name

Đerdap Gorge
The Gorge is Serbia tourist spots which absolutely dominate the beauty of the place with its dramatic cliffs which has often stunned many visitors. Djerdap was discovered right from the years in the B.C when ancient Greece uses this way to transfer their goods. It played a major role in the ages of the Roman Empire with many emperors having their share in taming Djerdap

Skull Tower
This monument is Serbia tourist attractions which is an important memorial of the remains of the 952 skulls by brutal Ottoman rule. The tower was made from the falling skulls of the rebels who went against the Ottoman rule. It was built after the Battle of Cegar. The sight has become a pilgrimage place for the Serbs. It’s considered to be the symbol of the country’s struggle and independence from the Ottoman Empire

Uvac Lake
The nature in Serbia is impressive and the Uvac Lake is a spot that matches a priceless reaction. . Before it came to be known as the Uvac Lake, it was called the river of Zlatibor and Zlatar. The lake lies between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.  It’s added with the wild fauna, cliffs and the flowing of the powerful Drina River

Đavolja Varoš
Đavolja Varoš is also known as the Devil’s town as it has a peculiar formation of about 200 rocks which seems mysterious but the uniqueness of the rocks attracted many tourists. It’s a very rare natural phenomenon of how these rocks were formed, the high stone formation has many theories whether it’s the petrified wedding guest or people petrified by the witch, it’s only a legends’ saying. Today, the sight is nominated for one of the Seven Wonders of the World.

Golubac Fortress
If you are thinking of the things to do in Serbia, visit the 14th-century fortification. It’s the country’s most photogenic site and offers a great view of the city. It was a medieval fortified town on the modern town of Golubac. It was built in the 14th century and divided into three compounds. The fortress has a tremendous history. Before it was built, it was a place of so many battles especially between the Kingdom of Hungary and the Ottoman Empire.

Drvengrad
Drvengrad is a small traditional village which was built by a film director Emir Kusturica for his movie Life Is a Miracle. It is located near the city of Uzice and considered to be Serbia tourist spots. It also has a library by the name Ivo Andric, named after an artist gallery. There’s also Stanley Kubrick Cinema which has a cinema hall in the living room, cellar, a guest room.

Žiča Monastery
The 13th-century monastery was founded by St. Sava himself and considered to be hugely important of the Serbian state. Its history is more than 8th centuries long where the first Serbian King was crowned. It’s fascinating to get inside the monastery to see and feel the walls in daylight and peek into its interior. The vivid frescoes are decorated on its wall which captivated the whole building.

Kopaonik Mountain
Kopaonik is mainly popular for winter sports, though the Kaponik Mountains get lot of tourists in the summer as well. They offer a wide range of slopes and a total of 24 ski lifts are active in the area. Snowboarding is also an option in resorts besides bird watching, hiking, and mountain climbing.

Fruška Gora Mountain and National Park
Fruška Gora Mountain and National Park affectionately called the ‘Jewel of Serbia.’ The Fruška Gora Mountain is located on the boarder of Croatia. The Fruška Gora National Park is a protected area, studded with wineries and vineyards, which are well worth the visit

Drina River
Drina River offers a wealth of extreme sports and majestic scenery making one of the best places to get an adrenaline rush. Located in western Serbia, Drina River is one of the few rivers in the country where tourists can try white water rafting

Novi Sad City
Novi Sad is the second largest city in Serbia, the capital of the Vojvodinia Province. The Petrovaradin Fortress, dating back to the 17th century, is perhaps the most dominating landmark in the region which is also the top attraction of the city.

Museum of Yugoslavia and the House of Flowers
The Museum of Yugoslavia and the House of Flowers is Belgrade sights to be visited while in Belgrade. A tomb and collection of batons are found here. If you want to see the context of the city and the country, this is one of the sights to see in Belgrade. There is also a story about the baton and many of them in the museum.

Ada Ciganlija
Ada Ciganlija is a river island generally with a temperature of 20 degree Celsius in the summertime. However, there are plenty of bars around the area for refreshments. It’s just 4 km away from the city rich with elm and oak forests, different flora and fauna. Due to its natural riches, there are a number and variety of sports activities and a place for fun, rest, enjoyment for many locals and foreigners

Republic Square, the National Theatre and the National Museum
This is Belgrade tourist places as it’s the main meeting place of the country which makes it the busiest location in Belgrade. It’s an open square where you can walk around or find food to eat in the street. There are two famous landmarks known as the National Museum and the National Theatre. The square was established in the middle of 1800, and was never known as the Republic square

Avala Tower
Avala Tower is a 205-meter tall spindle that was destroyed but rebuilt in 2000. It’s the tallest towers in the Balkans and Belgrade tourist attractions. It was designed by Uglješa Bogunović and Slobodan Janjić. It’s the only tower in the world to have an equilateral triangle. The tower has so many visitors from all over the world and in 2017 the base of the tower was opened as a tourist’s complex

National Theatre
The National Theatre was opened in 1869 and has come through the years of its war damage. It was founded in the 19th century and located on the republic square. The theatre went through a lot of phases such as the architectural and artistic development and holding on the Serbian tradition, culture and spirituality till today. There number of ballet, opera and drama at the theatre all year round.

Museum of Aviation
The Museum of Aviation is Belgrade tourist attractions built from a geodesic glass in 1989. It is located next to the city’s airport. The museum consists of more than 200 aircraft belonging to the military. It’s laid out inside a circular dome which shows a collection from the 1900s up to the 21st century. In its collection are Messerschmitt Bf 109, NATO aircraft and many others.

Gardoš Tower
The Gardoš Tower is a monument built in 1896 over the right bank of the Danube. It’s also known as the Millennium Tower. The memorial tower is located in the city of Belgrade which was part of a big construction as the others buildings in Budapest. The tower was built on top of the medieval fortress ruins on the hill.

St Mark’s Church
The Neo-Byzantine church is one of the largest churches in Serbia. It is made of frame marble with some famous painting of the last supper by Đuro Radulović. It was completed in 1940 by the Krstic brothers and stands as one of the largest church in the city. The church was dedicated to Evangelist Mark and Holy Apostle destroyed in 1941

Zemunski Kej
The Zemunski Kej is Europe’s second largest river one if you are looking for the best things to do in Belgrade, you should take a trip down to this place. The river is the main landing for a number of boats, and it’s where the tourist ships and cruisers come.

Residence of Princess Ljubica
The residence is now a museum exhibiting a series of the rich royal rooms assembled from various homes of Belgrade’s royal families. It’s one of the few buildings which survived the reign of Prince Miloš Obrenović. The residence built with the intention to serve as a luxurious court of the Serbian ruling dynasty.

Belgrade Military Museum
The Belgrade Military Museum is one of the best places to visit in Belgrade. It belongs to the military museum and it has a line up of deactivated mines, torpedoes, German panzers, cannons etc. It was founded in 1878 and has more than 3,000 ancient and modern items which include Roman helmets, swords, Serbian knights and many others
Croatia

Croatian Museum of Nave Art
The Croatian Museum of Nave Art is a fine art museum in Zagreb Croatia dedicated to the work of nave artists of the 20th century. The museum holdings consist of over 1900 works of art - paintings sculptures drawings and prints mainly by Croatians but also by other well-known international artists in the genre.

Monument to the Revolution of the people of Moslavina
Monument to the Revolution of the people of Moslavina or simply Monument to the Revolution is a World War II memorial sculpture by Duan Damonja located in Podgari Berek municipality Croatia. It is dedicated to the people of Moslavina during Worl

Lake Dubrava
Lake Dubrava is a reservoir on the Drava in northern Croatia. It is administratively divided between Meimurje County and Varadin County and is bordered by the municipalities of Prelog Sveti ur and Veliki Bukovec. The Drava flows into the rese

Medvednica Nature Park


St. Catherines Church Zagreb
Church of St. Catherine is a Baroque-style church in Zagreb.

Co-Cathedral of the Holy Cross Krievci
The Co-Cathedral of the Holy Cross also called Krievci Co-Cathedral is a Catholic church located in Krievci Croatia and is the co-cathedral of the Diocese of Bjelovar-Krievci.

St. Marks Church Zagreb
The Church of St. Mark is the parish church of old Zagreb Croatia located in St. Marks Square. It is one of the oldest architectural monuments in Zagreb.

Sponza Palace
The Sponza Palace also called Divona is a 16th-century palace in Dubrovnik Croatia. Its name is derived from the Latin word spongia the spot where rainwater was collected.

Dominican Monastery
Dubrovniks Dominican Monastery may be one of the citys first multi-purpose construction projects. Besides its function as a home for a 14th-century Dominican congregation it was positioned against the city wall to strengthen the ramparts northeaster

Church of St. Ignatius of Loyola
If you make a right turn from Gunduliceva Poljana youll run into a long set of Baroque stairs designed by Pietro Passalacqua and reminiscent of Romes Spanish Steps. The stairs lead up from Uz Jezuite to the Jesuit Church of St. Ignatius of Loyola Dubrovniks largest house of worship. The stairs were severely damaged in the 1991-92 siege of the city but they have been resto

Cathedral Treasury


Old Town Hostel
Old Town Hostel is located in the center of Dubrovniks UNESCO protected Old City. It is a 400 year old four story building that has been recently renovated to accommodate 25 guests in dorm and private rooms. We are ONLY 15 meters from the Stradun and seconds from all the restaurants cafes stores markets museums bars banks and beautiful beaches. We offer free Wi-Fi internet

Dubrovnik Airport


Franjo Tuđman Airport Zagreb


Zagreb Cathedral
Zagreb Cathedral on the Kaptol is a Roman Catholic institution and not only the tallest building in Croatia but also the most monumental sacral building in Gothic style southeast of the Alps. It is dedicated to the Assumption of Mary and to kings Saint Stephen and Saint Ladislaus. The cathedral is typically Gothic as is its sacristy which is of great architectural value. Its prominent spires are

Croatian History Museum
Croatian History Museum is a museum of history located in the Vojkovi Palace on Antun Gustav Mato Street in the historic Gornji Grad district of Zagreb Croatia. The museum holdings consist of around 300000 objects divided into 17 collections. In ad

ibenik Cathedral
The Cathedral of St. James in ibenik Croatia is a triple-nave catholic basilica with three apses and a dome. It is the episcopal seat of the ibenik diocese. It is also the most important architectural monument of the Renaissance in the entire country. Since 2000 the cathedral has been on the UNESCO World Heritage List.

Riva Harbor


Nakic Palace


Adriatic Coast


The Roman Temple


St.Lawrence Church and Monastery
St. Lawrence Church was built in the second half of the 18th century for purposes of the Franciscan Order. On the church facade which ends with a gable a profiled portal with a humble Baroque transom can be found. Placed in the tympanum of the lateral entrance is a small sculpture of St. Lawrence from 1720. Across from the church is the Franciscan monastery from 1650. Its

Zadar Cathedral
The Cathedral of St. Anastasia is the Roman Catholic cathedral of Zadar Croatia seat of the Archdiocese of Zadar and the largest church in all of Dalmatia.

Ivanica
Ivanica is a mountain in northern Croatia. The highest peak is the eponymous Ivanica at 1059 metres. The rivers of Bednja Lonja Krapina and Veliki potok rise and flow in the area.

St. Saviour Church Dubrovnik
St. Saviour Church is a small votive church located in Dubrovniks Old Town. It is dedicated to Jesus Christ.

Cathedral of the Birth of Mary
The Cathedral of the Birth of Mary or Trebinje Catholic Cathedral in Trebinje is one of four Roman Catholic cathedrals in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is the seat of the Trebinje-Mrkan Bishopric. Petar Pali acts as bishop to the Trebinje-Mrkan Bishopric as well a

Natural history museum


Church of Saint Blaise
If it seems as though the original city fathers had St. Blaises image engraved on every public building wall and fortress in Old Town youd be close to correct. But nowhere is their devotion to the citys patron saint more evident than at St. Blaise Church. The pres

Fort Bokar


Dubrovnik Shore Tours
Guaranteed SMALL GROUP departures for our BESTSELLER TOUR in 2019-2020 for Holland America Celebrity Royal Caribbean Norwegian Crystal and Princess cruise ships arriving in Port of Dubrovnik. All of our tours are also organized as PRIVATE option. We pick up guests DIRECTLY at your ships gangway as we have permit to enter Dubrovnik Port. Enjoy company of 6 young profession

Church of Our Lady of the Snow
The monastery recently was converted to an eight-room bed-and-breakfast and guests can explore the adjoining church at their leisure. Look for the churchs medieval altarpieces and the remains of what may be an ancient Roman amphitheater nearby. Inside y

Dubrovnik Synagogue
The Old Synagogue in Dubrovnik Croatia is the oldest Sefardic synagogue still in use today in the world and the second oldest synagogue in Europe. It is said to have been established in 1352 but gained legal status in the city in 1408. Owned by the local Jewish community the main floor still functions as a place of worship for Holy days and special occasions but is now mainly a city muse

Dubrovnik Treasures
Dubrovnik Treasures is a boutique located just off the main street Stradun. Here you will find an exquisite selection of authentic traditional Croatian jewelry & unique more modern designs. All the jewelry is handmade in Dubrovnik by local artisans who are brother & sister. They use a combination of Adriatic coral cultured freshwater pearls semi-precious stones with sterling silver gold a

Dubrovnik Cable Car
Visit us and be amazed with the breathtaking views of the Old City of Dubrovnik the crystal clear Adriatic Sea and the numerous islands. Enjoy all the comforts of our facilities.

Old Bazaar


Museum of Modern Art Dubrovnik (MOMAD)
The Museum of Modern Art Dubrovnik was founded in 1945 and is housed inside the prestigious palace built in 1939 by Dubrovnik ship-owner Boo Banac. It was designed by prominent Croatian architects Lavoslav Horvat and Harold Bilini. The Museum also manages the Duli-Masle-Pulitika Gallery and the Pulitika Atelier in the Old Town. The Museum of Modern Art Dubrovnik has

Serbian Orthodox Cathedral in Zagreb
Zagreb Orthodox Cathedral or Cathedral of the Transfiguration of the Lord is a Serbian Orthodox Cathedral located on the Petar Preradovi Square in Zagreb Croatia. It was built in 186566 according to designs of architect Franjo Klein. It is ecclesiastically part of the Metropolitanate of Zagreb and Ljubljana and its cathedral.

Museum of Croatian Archaeological Monuments
The Museum of Croatian Archaeological Monuments located at Metrovievo etalite 18 Split Croatia is the only museum in the country dedicated to researching and presenting cultural artifacts of the Croats in the Middle Ages between the 7th and 15th centuries particularly the time of the early medieval Croatian state from 9th to 12th century.

Church of st. Constantius


Green Market


Church of Saint Barbara
The church of St. Barbara is a monument of gothic architecture. It is a single-naved church. The building of the church started at about 1400. Above the main entrance there is a gothic niche with a sculpture of St. Nicholas the work of the Italian artist Bonino fro

Plitvice Lakes National Park


Mokrice Castle
Mokrice Castle is a medieval castle southeast of Breice Slovenia located on a hill in the northern part of the settlement of Rajec in the Gorjanci Hills near the Croatian border. First mentioned in 1444 it was rebuilt in the 16th century and in 1941. After World War II it was made into a hotel with restaurants and in 1988 a golf course was built in the grounds to the castle. In the same year English

Jarun
Jarun is a neighborhood in the southwestern part of Zagreb Croatia. It was named after Lake Jarun formed by the Sava River now located on the southern edge of the neighborhood.

Franjo Tudman Bridge
The Franjo Tuman Bridge is a cable-stayed bridge carrying the D8 state road at the western approach to Dubrovnik Croatia across Rijeka Dubrovaka near Port of Gru. The original bridge design was developed in 1989 however construction was stopped at the onset of the Croatian War of Independence. Named after the 1st President of Croatia Franjo Tuman the bridge has been redesigned by the Structures Department of the University of Zagreb. The bridge is 518 meters long measured between the abutments. The substructure of the bridge consists of abutments a pier on the western shore supporting a pre-tensioned girder and an anchoring pier on the eastern shore.

Art Gallery Talir
Art Gallery Talir is a business from Dubrovnik that has been operating successfully for many Years. It deals with the sale of paintings works of art and the sale of paintings by renowned academic painters. This is the best place because everyone will find something for themselves and it is certainly nice to come home with a picture of some of our renowned academic painters.

Kolocep
The island of Kolocep is one of the three inhabited Elaphiti Islands situated near the city of Dubrovnik with an area of 2.44 square kilometres. Kolocep is the southernmost inhabited island in Croatia. In the 2011 census the population of the island was 163. The island of Kolocep lies at a distance of 1 kilometre from the closest point on the mainland and about the same distance from the peninsula of Lapad further east towards the city of Dubrovnik itself. The port of Dubrovnik is situated at the base of a bay on the other side of Lapad requiring a 5 kilometres journey by boat to the island.

Palazzo di Diocleziano
The ruins of the Roman Emperor Diocletians palace date back to the late 3rd to early 4th century A.D.

Historic City of Trogir


Marjan
Marjan is a hill on the peninsula of the city of Split the second largest city of Croatia. It is covered in a dense Mediterranean pine forest and completely surrounded by the city and the sea making it a unique sight. Originally used as a park by the citizens as early

Cathedral of Saint Domnius
The Cathedral of Saint Domnius known locally as the Sveti Dujam or colloquially Sveti Duje is the Catholic cathedral in Split Croatia. The cathedral is the seat of the Archdiocese of Split-Makarska headed by Archbishop Marin Barii. The Cathedral of St. Domnius is a complex of a church formed from an Imperial Roman mausoleum with a bell tower strictly the church is dedicated to th

I
I is an island in the Zadar Archipelago within the Croatian reaches of the Adriatic Sea.

Vransko Jezero Nature Park


Najada Diving
Ultimate diving in Croatia The family friendly PADI SSI dive school we are the only one in Murter that offers a broad range of education from kids to profis in several languages German English French Croatian Finnish and Swedish. NAJADA diving has an English and German speaking management and is equipped with state-of-the-art techniques. With three dive instructors  dive

The Gold and Silver of Zadar
The Benedictine Convent next to the Church of St. Mary doesnt look like much from the street but inside youll find one of the most impressive museums in Croatia. The church dates from the 11th century and its collection of precious sacral art and even more precious relics is displayed on three floors and in the basement of the convent next door where the church treasures have been

Five Wells Square (Trg 5 Bunara)


Crkva i Samostan Sv. Frane


Manita pec cave


Zagreb
Zagreb is the capital and the largest city of Croatia. It is located in the northwest of the country, along the Sava river, at the southern slopes of the Medvednica mountain. The Zagreb Cathedral lies in the Kaptol and is famous among the viewers, especially the Roman Catholics. In Croatia, it is regarded as the “tallest building” and “most consecrated memorial” build as a dedication to St. Stephen King, St. Ladislaus King, and Assumption of Mary. Zagreb’s Gornji Grad is one of the Famous Places to Visit in Zagreb. It is a district of Zagreb in Croatia which translates into “upper town” signifying the historical presence on the city’s hilly side which founds its location above Donji grad, the lower town. Zagreb’s Cathedral, Croatian Parliament, and St. Mark’s Church lies in the Gornji Grad regions.

Zadar
Zadar is an ancient city in Croatia which lies on the magnificent Adriatic Sea. It founds its location in the regions of the north-western side of Ravni Kotari. The Zadar County is glorified with the presence of Zadar’s Romanesque Churches making it a famous place among visitors. In the list of Things to Do in Croatia, Zadar’s Romanesque Churches can’t be missed. Some of these churches include St. Donatus Church, St. Chrysogonus Church, St Simeon Church, St. Elijah’s Church, St. Francis’ Church, and so on.

Dubrovnik
Dubrovnik is a Croatian city on the Adriatic Sea. It is one of the most prominent tourist destinations in the Mediterranean Sea. Dubrovnik’s City Walls are a sequence of arranged and well-protected gravel walls reaching at a height up to 25m. The walls surround the Dubrovnik city which lies in the southern regions of Croatia. Dubrovnik is a popular city in Croatia which lies on the Adriatic Sea. Being one of the most famed tourist places, it is giving major visiting goals. During the time of 1979, the city was given an entry in the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites. The Dubrovnik Cable Car came into introduction during the time in 1969. Many visitors used the cable car to have a panoramic view with the naked eyes.

Split
In Croatia, Split is regarded as the “second largest city” which lies in the Dalmatia regions. It holds about 200,000 inhabitants, which resides in its urban portions. It adorns the beauty of the Adriatic Sea and situated near to the sea’s eastern side. The Split is reaching all over the area of the central peninsula. Being a popular tourist spot in Croatia, Split has been giving picturesque experiences. The Adriatic islands and Apennine peninsula are adorning the city’s beauty. The city is a residential land for the famous Diocletian’s Palace, which was created by the Roman emperor.

Hvar Town
The town is a port located on the magnificent Hvar Island which is a major part of the Split-Dalmatia County in Croatia. The borough holds a population of 4,251 as per the 2011 records. It lands on the southern coast bay which is opposed to Jelsa and Stari Grad towns. With its long historical evidence, it remained a center for activities such as trade and culture in the Adriatic regions. The town was a communal part of the famous Empire Venetian.

Korcula Town
Korcula is a popular momentous mound borough which lies on the east coast side of the Korcula island, Croatia. It is situated in the Adriatic regions which makes it a popular spot among tourist visits. Being the oldest city, it is a famous place to explore the historical remains on its ground. The herringbone patterned arrangement in the streets is a picturesque design. The Church of Saint Nicholas is one of the alluring places to visit in Croatia. The town walls at down look so magnificent that one can’t miss such a view.

Pula Arena
Pula Arena is a famous name given to the amphitheater which is situated in the regions of Pula in Croatia. The Coliseum is the last example of the Roman-built amphitheater which is constructed with 4-side magnificent towers. Along with it, the three Roman architectural sequences framed also makes it completed preserved place. It holds regard as one of the “Six largest Roman arenas present on the planet.” It came into presence from the tie of 27 BC to 68 AD. In Croatia, it is titled as the “best conserved prehistoric obelisk” which is keeping the Roman amphitheater alive. The limestone walls act as a protection layer outside the Coliseum. The elliptical structure is a picturesque place to explore by the tourists.

Rovinj
Rovinj city is one of the beautiful Attractions in Croatia which lies in the northern area of Adriatic Sea. It holds a popular of 14,294 occupants as per the 2011 record. Among the visitors, it is a famous resort to enjoy an active fishing seaport experience. A list of Places to visit in Rovinj includes St. Euphemia’s Basilica, Monkodonja, Zlatni Rt Forest Park, Rovingno Islands, Rovinj mainland, Limska Draga Fjord, Rovinj Town Museum, Palud March, Batana Eco-museum, and Due Sorelle Islands. The bars, restaurants, and memorials are given an alluring experience.

Mljet Island
Mljet is a famous Adriatic island situated in the regions of Dalmatia, Croatia. It is an extremely popular island and comes under the list of famous attractions in Croatia.  Landing on the south side of Peljesac Peninsula, Mljet Island gathers huge attraction by the visitors. It is about 37 km in length and reaches 3.2 km in terms of breadth. The longest gorges are Babino Polje, which is a connector between the island’s northern and southern side. On the northern side, a harbor lies with the name of Port Palace, which is open for tourist passenger boats.

Zagorje Region
Among the list of Zagreb Tourist Places, the region lies on the northern side of Croatia. It holds up a large area of the northern Mount Medvednica to Slovenia in the northern and western side, and covers till the Medimurje and Podravina regions lying in the Northern and Eastern side. The Zagorje region is a picturesque place for tourists. It is often regarded as a place with “trans-mountain” and “beyond mountain” area. The region’s population gets divided into the Varazdin County and Krapina-Zagorje County.

Krka National Park
Among the list of Zagreb Attractions, Krka National Park cannot be missed. It is regarded as one of the exquisite Croatian national parks. It lies along the Krka River in the regions of Dalmatia. The beauty of Sibenik-Knin’s county is glorified with the presence of the Krka River. The park was built to protect the river and encourages activities for tourism purposes. In Croatia, it is titled as the “Seventh National Park” with major Zagreb sights for the tourists. During the time of 1985, it gained it proclaim. In the park, major attractions are present, which include Visovac, Roski Slap, and Skradinski Buk. It has sightseeing tours, passageways, presentations, trip on boats, museum, restaurants, and memorial stores.

Diocletian's Palace
Being one of the prehistoric palaces, it comes under the list of Things to Do in Zagreb. It was constructed with the purpose to serve Diocletian, the Roman Emperor during the time of 4th century AD. At present, the palace holds about half the town of Split in Croatia. It assembles the look of a large fortress with an enormous composition which attracts major tourists. The half portion of the scenic palace was in the residence of Diocletian and the remaining portion was housed for the military garrison. It is located in the bay on the southern peninsula, which is about four miles away from the Salona region.

Rijeka
Rijeka is titled as the “Third largest city” in the region of Croatia. Being a primary seaport, it has gathered major tourist attraction. It lies in the regions of Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, situated on the magnificent Kvarner Bay. It holds a population of 128,624 occupants. During the time of 1756, Rijeka hosted the National Croatian Theatre Ivan Pavlov Zajc. Tovornica Torpedo is a major sight of Rijeka which came into creation by a naval engineer, Giovanni Luppis. The sanctuary of “Our Lady of Trsat” which was built above the sea level at a distance of 135 m, namely Svetiste Majke Bozje Trsatske is one of the beautiful sights in Croatia.

Brac Island
Among the list of Croatia tourist places, Brac Island is a major attraction. It lies in the Adriatic Sea and covers an area of 396 square km. In Dalmatia and Adriatic, it is regarded as the “largest island” and “third largest island” respectively. The Brac Channel separated it from the acreage. Vidova Gora is the island’s colossal tip, which makes it a picturesque place. The Brac bridge was made as a sole dedication to Franz Josef, an Austrian emperor. It holds a population of 13,9456 residents. The towns of Supetar and Murvica are an attractive tourist spot.

Brela Beach
In Croatia, the Brela beach is regarded as the best beaches for tourist attraction. The world-class beach gives an alluring experience to the travelers. The sea water holds excellent quality, making it an eminent beach in Croatia. It holds some linked beaches along with its area that reaches a distance of 6km ahead. The pine trees give a soothing view to the eyes. At a certain distance from the beach, Biokovo mountain captures the entire attention of the visitors. Brela beach was titled in the list of “top ten beaches all over the globe” by the Forbes magazine.

Zlatni Rat Beach
The beach is often known with the names of “Golden Cape” and “Golden Horn.” It lies in the regions of Adriatic Sea in the Split-Dalmatia County, Croatia. It enlarges its area towards the southern side of Hvar Channel. The white-pebbled beach is giving major tourist destination goals with its alluring beauty and soothing environment. In Europe, it is recorded in the list of “top ten beaches” giving an eye-catching experience. It has an exclusive shape which makes it record as one of the “Croatian tourism symbols.” The beach is bordered with the outline of the pine tree grove which makes it a delightful place. The pine tree outline is a residence for the Roman Rustica villa residuum and it also includes a fanciable swimming pool.

Adriatic Cruise
Being one of the modern luxury examples, Adriatic Cruise has been a famous place in the list of places to visit in Croatia. The legendary view is embracing all the beauty. Explore the golden views, beaches, treasures are hidden, legendary tales, and castle view on the famous Adriatic Cruise. If you’re looking to search for the Europe secrets, then the Adriatic Cruise is a good-suited place. The region occupies a vibrant community along with the cosmopolitans. The place’s cultural influencing factors also contribute to the seashore essence. It is a good example of the cruise masterpiece with its eye-catching architectural appearance.
Georgia
Once a backpacker's secret to becoming a mainstream tourist destination today, Georgia is now the most visited country in the South Caucasus and it’s easy to see why. From the hypnotic shades of green adorning the backdrops of vineyards and many hues of blues of the Black Sea to its rich culture imbibed in the old churches and fairytale castles, from the Roman city of Batumi to the ancient marvels of Tbilisi and Svaneti, all the Georgia attractions come as a package of extraordinary surprises for the visitors. While we wholeheartedly encourage you to spend weeks exploring the remarkable Georgia Tourist Places, read on further to discover why every traveller has a soft spot for Tbilisi that goes well with all the itineraries, suiting just about every preference.Almost every traveller visiting Georgia will tick off Tbilisi attractions at some point and despite being so popular with the tourist crowd, the capital city won’t disappoint. With a budding nightlife scene, reviving sulphur baths, world-class restaurants, natural wine bars, boisterous yet gracious locals and numerous art galleries and museums, the Tbilisi tourist attractions give you a chance to live a happy life to the fullest, making the city the hippest spot in the region. Planning a vacation to Georgia and thinking about where to start the journey? Look nowhere but at the list below as we bring together the best of Georgia Tourist Attractions along with the best places to visit in Tbilisi.
Narikala Fortress
Narikala is an ancient fortress overlooking Tbilisi, the capital of Georgia, and the Kura River. The fortress consists of two walled sections on a steep hill between the sulphur baths and the botanical gardens of Tbilisi. On the lower court there is the recently restored St Nicholas church. Narikala Fortress is one of the most beautiful and important site among visitors. This ancient fortress overlooks the city of Tbilisi. The fortress belongs to 4th century when it was built to protect the city from external attacks. At night when lights are on, this place is mesmerizing and demands a place in your camera. This fortress is also called Mother Fortress of Tbilisi. Today, your Tbilisi tour is not complete at all without you visiting this beautiful and ancient Narikala Fortress

Bridge of Peace
The Bridge of Peace is a bow-shaped pedestrian bridge a steel and glass construction illuminated with numerous LEDs over the Kura River linking the Rike Park with Old town in central Tbilisi. Since its opening in 2010 the structure has become an important pThe Bridge of Peace is a bow-shaped pedestrian bridge a steel and glass construction illuminated with numerous LEDs over the Kura River linking the Rike Park with Old town in central Tbilisi. Since its opening in 2010 the structure has become an important pedestrian crossing in the city as well as a significant tourist attraction and one of the most well-recognized landmarks of the capital.

Flea Market Dry Bridge


Funicular


Holy Trinity Cathedral of Tbilisi
The Holy Trinity Cathedral of Tbilisi commonly known as Sameba is the main cathedral of the Georgian Orthodox Church located in Tbilisi the capital of Georgia. Constructed between 1995 and 2004 it is the third-tallest Eastern Orthodox cathedral in the world and one of the largest religious buildings in the world by total area. Sameba is a synthesis of traditional styles dominating t

Jvari
Jvari Monastery is a sixth-century Georgian Orthodox monastery near Mtskheta eastern Georgia. Along with other historic structures of Mtskheta it is listed as a World Heritage site by UNESCO. Jvari is a rare case of the Early Medieval Georgian church that surviveJvari Monastery is a sixth-century Georgian Orthodox monastery near Mtskheta eastern Georgia. Along with other historic structures of Mtskheta it is listed as a World Heritage site by UNESCO. Jvari is a rare case of the Early Medieval Georgian church that survived to the present day almost unchanged. The church became the founder of its type the Jvari type of church architecture prevalent in Georgia and Armenia. Built atop of Jvari Mount the monastery is an example of harmonious connection with the natural environment characteristic to Georgian architecture.

Freedom Monument


Mtatsminda Park
Mtatsminda Park is a famous landscaped park located at the top of Mount Mtatsminda overlooking the Georgian capital Tbilisi. The park has carousels water slides a roller-coaster funicular and a big Ferris Wheel at the edge of the mountain offering a splendid view over the city.

Kartlis Deda
Kartlis Deda is a monument in Georgias capital Tbilisi. The statue was erected on the top of Sololaki hill in 1958 the year Tbilisi celebrated its 1500th anniversary. Prominent Georgian sculptor Elguja Amashukeli designed the twenty-metre aluminiuKartlis Deda is a monument in Georgias capital Tbilisi. The statue was erected on the top of Sololaki hill in 1958 the year Tbilisi celebrated its 1500th anniversary. Prominent Georgian sculptor Elguja Amashukeli designed the twenty-metre aluminium figure of a woman in Georgian national dress.

Mtatsminda Street
Mtatsminda Park is a famous landscaped park located at the top of Mount Mtatsminda overlooking the Georgian capital Tbilisi. The park has carousels water slides a roller-coaster funicular and a big Ferris Wheel at the edge of the mountain offering a splendid view over the city

Jvari Church


Tbilisi Mall


Mtskheta


Sighnaghi


Bodbe's St. Nino's Convent


Gori
Gori is a city in eastern Georgia which serves as the regional capital of Shida Kartli and the centre of the homonymous administrative district. The name is from Georgian gora that is heap or hill.

Sioni Cathedral
The Sioni Cathedral of the Dormition is a Georgian Orthodox cathedral in Tbilisi the capital of Georgia. Following a medieval Georgian tradition of naming churches after particular places in the Holy Land the Sioni Cathedral bears the name of Mount Zion at Jerusalem

Anchiskhati Basilica
The Anchiskhati Basilica of St Mary is the oldest surviving church in Tbilisi Georgia. It belongs to the Georgian Orthodox Church and dates from the sixth century.

Aragvi River


Joseph Stalin Museum Gori
The Joseph Stalin Museum is a museum in Gori Georgia dedicated to the life of Joseph Stalin the leader of the Soviet Union who was born in Gori. The Museum retains its Soviet-era characteristics.

Metekhi
Metekhi is a historic neighborhood of Tbilisi Georgia located on the elevated cliff that overlooks the Mtkvari river. The neighborhood is home to the eponymous Metekhi Church of Assumption.

Rustavi Sioni
The Rustavi church of the Assumption of Mary better known as Rustavi Sioni is a Georgian Orthodox church in Rustavi Georgia. It was built in 2000-2011. The project was created by Besarion Menabde Nikoloz Abashidze and Nikolos Dadiani. The building wor

Georgian National Museum


Uplistsikhe
Uplistsikhe is an ancient rock-hewn town in eastern Georgia some 10 kilometers east of the town of Gori Shida Kartli. Built on a high rocky left bank of the Mtkvari River it contains various structures dating from the Early Iron Age to the Late Middle Ages and is notable for the unique combination of various styles of rock-cut cultures from Anatolia and Iran as well as the co-existence of pag

Svetitskhoveli Cathedral
The Svetitskhoveli Cathedral is an Orthodox Christian cathedral located in the historic town of Mtskheta Georgia to the northwest of the Georgian capital Tbilisi. A masterpiece of the Early and High Middle Ages Svetitskhoveli is recognized by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site. It is currently the second largest church building in Georgia after the Holy Trinity Cathedral.

Ananuri


Mkinvartsveri


Rezo Gabriadze Theatre
But my dream came true. I went back to painting and sculpture and this time forever. I am grateful to my fate to the puppets and my small troupe rustling softly in dark corners of this old building.Rezo Gabriadze Though modest in size The Gabriadze Theater is among the worlds preeminent cultural institutions. Presenting mature puppet performances full of depth and meaning it has gained the respect and recognition of international audiences and critics alike.

Gudauri
Gudauri is a ski resort located on the south-facing plateau of The Greater Caucasus Mountain Range in Georgia. The resort is situated in the Stepantsminda District along the Georgian Military Highway near the Jvari Pass

Shardeni Street
Hotel Sharden Villa is a modern boutique hotel which is located in the historical center of Tbilisi. Hotel is surrounded by sightseeing places of Old Tbilisi such as Narikala Fortress Metekhi church Sioni Temple and many others. There are many c

Batumi
The sunny and modern Batumi personifies all the charm of a southern city and a sea resort with high-class luxury hotels. It is located on the Black Sea coast and is exquisitely framed by exotic subtropical flora. Palm trees, cypresses, magnolias, oleanders, bamboo trees, laurels, lemon and orange trees delight the eye everywhere. The romantic picture of ships departure from the harbor is better seen from Batumi Quay. Batumi citizens name this place Seaside Park-Boulevard. It surrounds the city along its sea border for 8 km. It is at all times very crowded. This is the most popular place for both locals and visitors of the capital. There you can enjoy Ali and Nino monument, Batumi Archaeological Museum, Botanical Garden, Churches of Batumi, Gonio Fortress etc

Alphabetic Tower
The Alphabetic Tower is a 130-meter-high structure in Batumi Georgia. The tower symbolizes the uniqueness of the Georgian alphabet and people. The structure combines the design of DNA in its familiar double helix pattern. Two helix bands rise up the tower holding 33 letters of the Georgian alphabet each 4 meters tall and made of aluminum.

Gonio
Gonio fortress is a Roman fortification in Adjara Georgia on the Black Sea 15 km south of BatumiGonio fortress is a Roman fortification in Adjara Georgia on the Black Sea 15 km south of Batumi at the mouth of the Chorokhi river. The village sits 4 km north of the Turkish border. Its name was connected with the myth of Medea and her brother Absyrtus.

Monument Ali and Nino


Piazza Square


Makhuntseti Waterwall


Prometheus Cave Natural Monument


Gergeti Trinity Church
Gergeti Trinity Church is a popular name for Holy Trinity Church near the village of Gergeti in Georgia. The church is situated on the right bank of the river Chkheri at an elevation of 2170 meters under Mount Kazbek.

Mount Kazbek
Mount Kazbek, is a dormant stratovolcano and one of the major mountains of the Caucasus located on the border of Georgia's Kazbegi District and Russia's Republic of North Ossetia-Alania. It is the third-highest peak in Georgia after Mount Shkhara and Janga and the seventh-highest summit in the Caucasus Mountains. If you are looking for Mountaineering, hiking and trekking in Georgia then go for Mount Kazbek. Because it is one of the highest and most beautiful mountains of Caucasus. The area around Mount Kazbek was designated a nature reserve by the Soviet Government in 1979, and it includes beech forests, sub-alpine forests and alpine meadows. Many of the plants and animals in the reserve are endemic to the Caucasus region. Mount Kazbek comes under the natural beauty category when it comes to must visit places in Georgia. One of the major mountains of Caucasus, Mount Kazak is located in Kazbegi district of Georgia

Narikala
Narikala is an ancient fortress overlooking Tbilisi the capital of Georgia and the Mtkvari River. The fortress consists of two walled sections on a steep hill between the sulfur baths and the botanical gardens of Tbilisi. On the lower court there is the recently re

Gremi Citadel and Church of the Archangels


Ujarma Fortress


The Chronicle of Georgia
The Chronicle of Georgia (or History Memorial of Georgia) is a monument located near Tbilisi sea. It was created by Zurab Tsereteli in 1985 but was never fully finished. The monument chronicles the history of Georgia. The monument sits at the top of a large set of stairs. There are 16 pillars that are between 30-35 meters tall and the top half features kings queens and heroes while the bottom part depict stories from the life of Christ.

Abanotubani
Abanotubani is the ancient district of Tbilisi Georgia known for its sulphuric baths. Located at the eastern bank of the Mtkvari River at the foot of Narikala fort across Metekhisubani Abanotubani is an important historic part of the city it is where according to a legend the King of Iberia Vakhtang Gorgasalis falcon fell leading to a discovery of the hot springs and subsequently to foundin

Open Air Museum of Ethnography


National Gallery


Gveleti Waterfall


Dancing Fountains Batumi
Dancing Fountains is situated in the New Boulevard district of Batumi 100 metres from Batumi Beach 6 km from Ali and Nino Monument and 26 km from Petra Fortress. Located on the beachfront this property features a bar. Aquapark Batumi is less than 1 km from the apartment while Holy Mother Virgins Nativity Cathedral is 2.6 km away. The nearest airport is Batumi Inte

Chacha Tower


Kobuleti Beach Club
Offering a private beach an outdoor pool and Georgian cuisine this hotel lies in the Black Sea resort of Kobuleti. Guests stay in spacious air-conditioned rooms with balconies and free Wi-Fi. Flat-screen TVs tiled floors and floor-to-ceiling windows are standard at the Kobuleti Beach Club. Guests enjoy views of the sea or hotel garden. Bathroom comforts include toiletries bathrobes and slippe

Poti Lighthouse


Tbilisi sea
The Tbilisi sea or Tbilisi reservoir is an artificial lake in the vicinity of Tbilisi that serves as a reservoir. The lake has a length of 8.75 km and a width of 2.85 km. The surface area of this reservoir is 11.6 km. It was opened in 1953 and has become a popular recreation spot. It is planned to develop the Tbilisi sea into a recreational park with various sports facilities.

National Botanical Garden of Georgia
The National Botanical Garden of Georgia formerly the Tbilisi Botanical Garden is located in Tbilisi the capital of Georgia and lies in the Tsavkisis-Tskali Gorge on the southern foothills of the Sololaki Range. It occupies an area of 161 hectares and possesses a collection of over 4500 taxonomic groups. Its history spans more than three centuries. It was first described in 1671 by the French traveler Jean Chardin as royal gardens which might have been founded at least in 1625 and were variably referred to as fortress gardens or Seidabad gardens later in history. The gardens appear in the records by Joseph Pitton de Tournefort and on the Tbilisi map composed by Prince Vakhushti. Pillaged in the Persian invasion of 1795 the garden was revived in the early 19th century and officially established as the Tiflis Botanical Garden in 1845.

Bagrati Cathedral
The Cathedral of the Dormition or the Kutaisi Cathedral more commonly known as Bagrati Cathedral is an 11th-century cathedral in the city of Kutaisi in the Imereti region of Georgia. A masterpiece of the medieval Georgian architecture the cathedral suffered heavy damage throughout centuries and was reconstructed to its present state through a gradual process starting in the

LaMaria Church


Kutaisi Botanical Garden


Ushguli ethnographic Museum
The museum is the house of twelfth century where many household items are located.

Besik Gabashvili Park


Rike Park
The park is an ideal place to relax among nature as well as enjoy various attractions. It is also the starting point of the cable car which in just a few minutes transports visitors to the Narikala fortress on the Sololaki Ridge.

Shiomgvime Monastery
The Shio-Mgvime Monastery is a medieval monastic complex in Georgia near the town of Mtskheta. It is located in a narrow limestone canyon on the northern bank of the Kura River some 30 km from Tbilisi Georgias capital. According to a historic tradition the first monastic community at this place was founded by the 6th-century monk Shio one of the Thirteen Assyrian Fathers who came to Georgia as Christian missionaries. St. Shio is said to have spent his last years as a hermit in a deep cave near Mtskheta subsequently named Shiomghvime after him. The earliest building - the Monastery of St. John the Baptist - a cruciform church very plain and strict in its design indeed dates to that time c.560s580s and the caves curved by monks are still visible around the monastery and along the road leading to the complex.

Tbilisi History Museum


Tbilisi City Tour
Tbilisi city tour takes you through some fascinating places. The Holy Trinity Cathedral in Tbilisi (commonly known as Sameba), is the third tallest Eastern Orthodox cathedral in the world and one of the largest religious buildings in the world by total area. Then you get to see the Bridge of Peace which stretches 150 metres over the Kura River. It provides a unique view of Metekhi Church, Narikala Fortress and statue of city's founder Vakhtang Gorgasali on one side, and Baratashvili Bridge and Presidential Office on the other. You also see the Narikala Fortress which was expanded by the Umayyads in the 7th century and later, by king David the Builder (1089–1125). In 1827, parts of the fortress were damaged by an earthquake and demolished

Aerial Tramway
Aerial Tramway is a fast and great experiential way to reach from a place on ground to the top of a hill where a significant travel sight is located. In this regard, Tbilisi Aerial Tramway connects Rike Park or popularly known as Europe Square to the fortress of Narikala. This aerial cable care smoothens your journey from Rike Park to fortress of Narikala. But apart from smooth experience it offers you great 360 degree view from top. This cable care was built in recent years and was opened in 2012 for public. Before this tramway the only way to get to Narikala was by climbing the hill which might have been troublesome for many. After the aerial tramway, it has become super easy for any one to reach from ground to top of Narikala. Three tourist sights at the top of the tramway to explore are fortress of Narikla, the 300 year old botanical garden and Kartlis Deda.

Gudauri Ski Resort
Gudauri is a Ski resort in South facing plateau of the Caucasus mountain range, situated in Stepantsminda district in Kazbegi region, Georgia. This wonderful ski resort sits at an altitude of 2196 m ( approximately 7200 feet) and is 120 KM to the north of the capital city Tbilisi. Gudauri offers quite an opportunity to the Skiers. Gudauri has routes for beginners in skiing as well as for pro riders. It has 50 KM of marked and well prepared route. Skiing here is considered safe and is best for free riders as  the slopes are above tree lines. Gudauri is also most popular for speed riding and Paragliding

Uplistsikhe Cave Town
Uplistsikhe is an old rock-hewn town in eastern Georgia. It is just 10 KM away from the town of Gori, which is also a tourist attraction and only 80-85 KM away from the capital city Tbilisi. Uplistsikhe is built on the left bank of river Mtkvari and here in town you can see numerous structures which dates back to early Iron Age to the late middle ages. These structures show the coexistence of Pagan and Christian culture. Before the 4th century, Uplistsikhe emerged as a major political and religious center of the country under the kingdom of Kartil. However when Christianity arrived in 4th century in Kartil, Uplistsikhe went on decline loosing its importance and lost its position to new Christianity centers Mtskheta and Tbilisi later on

Gori Fortress
Gori Fortress is a medieval citadel in Georgia, standing above the city of Gori on a rocky hill. The fortress first appears in the 13th century records but archaeological evidence shows that the area had already been fortified in the last centuries BC. Within the historic manuscripts the fortress is first mentioned in the XIII century as “Gori Prison”. The fortress controlled major strategic and economic routes and accommodated a large garrison.

State Museum of Joseph Stalin
Soviet leader Joseph Stalin’s Museum was founded in 1937 and holds around 60,000 exhibits. The premise of the museum includes a memorial house, where Stalin was born; an exhibition building and Stalin’s personal train wagon, in which he traveled to Tehran, Yalta and Potsdam. The museum also houses Stalin’s personal belongings.

Lake Ritsa
Lake Ritsa is a lake in the Caucasus Mountains, in the north-western part of Abkhazia, Georgia, surrounded by mixed mountain forests and subalpine meadows. Its water is cold and clear. Mountains with heights of 2,200 to 3,500 m surround the lake. The temperature here is low during the full year with around 8 degree Celsius being the average annual temperature. Highest temperature doesn’t go beyond 18 degree Celsius and minimum temperature goes below -1 degree Celsius. Lake Ritsa is also one if the deepest lake in Georgia with depth of 116 m and is rich in trout. Lake Ritsa is very famous among tourists as one of the nature’s miracle in Abkhazia, Georgia

Kutaisi
Second largest city of Georgia, Kutaisi looks beautiful. Though smaller in size than Tbilisi, Kutaisi has been on run to become capital city of Georgia. The city lies at an elevation of 125–300 metres above sea level. The beauty of the city is that it is surrounded by forests and in the centre of city has lush green gardens and streets here are full of high and leafy trees. Apart from having natural beauty Kutaisi has other cultural epitome museums to see as well. To name a few are Kutaisi state historical museum, Gelati Monastery, Motsameta Monastery, Kutaisi museum of sport, Kutaisi museum of Martial art, Museum of Zakaria Paliashvili and some more

Svaneti
Highest inhabited area in Caucasus region. There is upper Svaneti and there is lower Svaneti. Apart from geography Svaneti is a historical place in Georgia  too. Svans which is a sub-ethnic group in Georgia inhabit Svaneti. Svaneti is termed as mysterious, wild, naturally beautiful and dangerous as well. Though infrastructure for tourism here is not too great but that does not take away the fact from Svaneti that this a place to go in Georgia. Svaneti offers you landscapes dominated by mountains which are separated by deep gorges. The city is covered by forests too. So altogether it is easy to say that Svaneti is nature’s delight

David Gareja Monastery
David Gareja Monastery is a rock hewn Georgian Orthodox monastery complex located in the Kakheti region of eastern Georgia, on the half-desert slopes of Mount Gareja. It is located 60-70km southeast of Georgian’s capital Tbilisi. You can visit most of the monastery; the rooms not allowed to tourists are clearly marked with “no entrance” signs, in both English and Georgian. See the tomb of the first monk to have lived there (St. David Garejeli). Then, you can follow the path starting right behind the church shop, that goes on the top of the small mountain.

New Athos Waterfall
New Athos Waterfall is manmade artificial waterfall created by a hydro electric dam. Behind the dam there is an abandoned railway station where one can reach by climbing up the steps at the side of the waterfall

Sioni Cathedral Church
Sioni Cathedral Church is situated in the capital city of Georgia, Tbilisi. The cathedral is named in the honor of Jerusalem Zion. Its architectural style reminds strict Catholic structure of a religious cult lacking any elements of decor. The only ornament of the cathedral is the high tower with the peak steeped dome towering over the central part of Sioni.

Georgian Wineries
Georgia is one of the oldest wine regions in the world. The fertile valleys of the South Caucasus house the source of the world's first cultivated grapevines and Neolithic wine production, from over 8,000 years ago. Due to the many millennia of wine in Georgian history, and its key economic role, the traditions of its viticulture are entwined and inseparable with the country's national identity.

Monastery Bodbe
This beautiful monastery is one of the most important places for Georgians, because St. Nino, who brought Christianity to Georgia, is buried there.
Tajikistan

National Museum of Tajikistan
The National Museum of Tajikistan is a museum in Dushanbe, the capital city of Tajikistan. The National Museum of Tajikistan is made out of four show divisions: Department of Natural History, Department of Ancient and Medieval History, Department of Modern and Contemporary History and Department of Fine and Applied Arts.

Kokhi Navruz
Finished in September 2014 Kohi Navruz was planned as the biggest national tea house in Central Asia, yet during the time spent structure it transformed into a genuine museum of national handicrafts of Tajik people. The complex has seven lifts,  bowling, billiard, a 3D movie theatre, night club, shop art gallery and a little national tea house, yet the most amazing side of the structure is its halls

Rudaki Park
Rudaki Park, is a grand, fastidiously arranged park in the core of Dushanbe. Encompassed by significant tourist spots and structures, the open park highlights wellsprings, sculptures, and manicured yards, in addition to a great many of vibrant flowers. Home to the goliath flagpole and a much-photographed sculpture of Rudaki, and with heavenly perspectives on the city's famous new structures and landmarks, it makes for an incredible area for an outing in summer.

Botanical Gardens


Iskanderkul lake Panj-Chashma spring
Iskanderkul is a mountain lake of glacial origin in Tajikistan’s Sugdh Province. It lies at an altitude of 2195 meters on the northern slopes of the Gissar Range in the Fann Mountains. Triangular in shape it has a surface area of 3.4 kilometres and is up to 72 meters deep. Iskanderkul Lake is quite popular among tourists because of its high scenic value. The lake is not far away from Dushanbe as the distance is only 134 KM. Iskanderkul lake as the name suggests has taken its name from Alexander the Great. The water of the lake remains cool during summers and even if you love swimming you should restrain from swimming here because it is risky as the lake lives with melting glaciers and the glacier is only at a distance of few kilometres. Lake and its surrounding area has been designated as a nature reserve. The habitats in and around lakes are rivers, water meadows, forests, sub alpine meadows and mountains

Haji Yaqub Mosque


Hisor Fortress
Hissar Fortress has located 26 km from Dushanbe. The fortress is an open-air Museum. A number of legends from the work of A. Firdousi Shahname is connected with the Hissar fortress. Hissar is the capital of the province of Eastern Bukhara and was in the hands of the Governor of Emir Ibrahim Bey until 1924 when he was defeated by the red army.

Ismoili Somoni Monument
One of Dushanbe's most noteworthy present-day landmarks, this sculpture commends the tenth-century founder of the Samanid line. With a craftsmanship deco quality to the structure of the landmark's golden casing and an unmistakable position on Friendship Sq, it has become a key meeting point in the city.

Tajikistan National Museum
The National Museum of Tajikistan is a museum in Dushanbe the capital city of Tajikistan. The museum has a total area of 24 000 m of which over 15 000 m are exhibition halls. It is composed of four exhibition departmentsDepartment of Natural History Department of Ancient and Medieval History Department of Modern and Contemporary History and Department of Fine and Applied Arts.

Palace of Unity
The Palace of Unity also referred to as Vahdat Palace is a building in Dushanbe Tajikistan. Located in the northern part of Dushanbes main thoroughfare Rudaki Avenue near Hotel Avesto and the embassy of Uzbekistan it is the headquarters of the ruling Pe

Victory Park
Victory Park is a park in honor of the Great Patriotic War located in the mountainous part of Dushanbe in Tajikistan. The park was completed in 1985.

Dushanbe Zoo
Dushanbe Zoo or Dushanbe Zoological Park was founded in 1960 in Dushanbe Tajikistan. The zoo is located in the center of the city on the Luchob river bank next to the Pamir Stadium and measures roughly twice the size of the stadium.Dushanbe Zoo or Dushanbe Zoological Park was founded in 1960 in Dushanbe Tajikistan. The zoo is located in the center of the city on the Luchob river bank next to the Pamir Stadium and measures roughly twice the size of the stadium.

Hisor City
Hisor is a city in western Tajikistan about 15 km west of Dushanbe. It is the capital of Hisor District one of the Districts of Republican Subordination. It lies at an altitude of 799824 m surrounded by high mountains.

Dushanbe
Tajikistan's capital and biggest city is Dushanbe, present-day and European styled, with expansive tree-lined streets and an awesome setting of snowcapped mountain tops. The city includes various squares and landmarks honoring the Persian impacts of the past and its environment contains numerous recreational zones, mountain stops and chasms, one with a 100-foot cascade.

Varzob Gorge
Varzob Gorge, with its snow-capped mountains, falling cascades, and warm springs, is a mainstream spot for adventure-seeking travelers in Tajikistan. Sightseers from great distances abroad run to the valley to appreciate courageous exercises like climbing, trekking, and hiking.  Located less than an hour’s drive from Dushanbe, the Varzob Gorge makes an incredible day excursion or the weekend from the verdant Tajik capital.

Dushanbe’s Flag Pole
The Dushanbe Flagpole is a flagpole situated before the Palace of Nations in Dushanbe, Tajikistan. At 165 meters it was the tallest detached flagpole on the planet from its consummation in 2011 until the 2014 erection of the (171m) Jeddah Flagpole.

Wall of Great Tajik Writers
The Wall of extraordinary Tajik essayists is the veneer of the Writers' Union building in Dushanbe, home to an association of novelists, artists, dramatists, and different scholars. The large wall is carved with nine niches containing eleven life-size statues of famous Tajik writers, a tribute to Tajikistan’s Persian and Soviet history.

Mehrgon and Korvon Bazaar
Mehrgon bazaar at the edges of Dushanbe was built instead of the green bazaar. Mehrgon is all the more systematic however less visited. It's a less enrapturing rendition of the more established bazaars. The market is increasingly composed and all the more perfect, but also lacks the hustle and bustle that made the green bazaar so interesting. A lot bigger Korvon bazaar offers substantially more neighborhood shading even though it centers for the most part around modest Chinese garments.

Safed Dara Ski Resort
Safed Dara is a ski resort situated in the Region of Republican Subordination on the Safedorak Plateau which is a part of the Pamir Mountains, at statures from 2,100 meters up to 3,000 meters. Originally known as the Takob ski resort it was redesigned in 2015 and another name was given: Safed Dara which means white valley. It is an exceptional spot for mountaineering and skiing there are 2.3 km of slopes accessible and 3 lifts transport the travelers.

Nowruz Palace
Dushanbe's most terrific landmark is presumably the Palace of Nowruz. The royal residence in addition to the gardens, fountains, pavilions and everything is around ten acres of land, so it's a huge parcel. The Nowruz Palace is a social and amusement center. It was developed utilizing ancient architectural decorative customs of Tajiks. It is a landmark of culture. Tajik hues and style are caught in each component of the inside. The best specialists of Tajikistan were welcomed for improving cutting, divider designs, woodcarving, Florentine mosaics, mosaic in shaded glass, and painted roofs

Panjshanbe Market


Panjshanbe Market


Hisor Historical and Cultural Preserve
The Hissar History and Culture Reserve is a fascinating assortment of archeological and building landmarks from various ages on a larger territory near Hissar. Different pieces of this reserve are the caravanserai, two mosques and a mausoleum of Makhdumi Azam. Abridging a decent spot for a little while and to see some memorable structures of Tajikistan.

Soviet Mosaics
The Dushanbe Soviet mosaics are some of the most delightful you will witness in Central Asia. Soviet qualities are joined with Tajik history and culture. Colorful pieces of stained glass, interspersed with stones from the mountains, symbolize the coexistence of Soviet ideas with the local culture

Ayni Opera & Ballet Theatre
Ayni Opera and Ballet Theater was built in 1946 and is a classic example of Stalinist design. It has numerous exhibitions and plays. The primary Tajik expressive dance was performed here and the way of life at that point began to develop and create.  Show and Ballet Theater is the center of the social existence of the capital and the nation's leading musical theater.

Pamir Highway
Pamir Highway is one of the most dangerous and adventurous route in the world. Travelling on the second highest highway in the world can be the trip of the lifetime. This highway is paved and unpaved both. Unpaved parts make it more dangerous. But this highway has been historically used as one of the old silk routes for trades. Pamir highway runs from Khorog in Tajikistan to Osh in Kyrgyzstan. One cannot be just excited to travel on this route, chills and thrills comes automatically while one travels on this highway. Landslides and rock fall is quite a regular phenomena here. Historically called Pamir Highway is now officially called M41. Most of the Pamir Highway is located in Tajikistan, situated in the middle of Central Asia with India to the south and China to the east, but the highway also goes through Afghanistan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan in Central Asia.

Fann Mountain
Fann Mountains are part of the western Pamir-Alay mountain system and are primarily located in Tajikistan’s Sughd Province. Fann has got about hundred peaks and many of them rise above 5000 metres. These peaks make beautiful sights for tourists during different times of the day and months. The highest peak in the Fann mountain is Chimtarga Peak with an altitude of 5,489 metres. Some other high peaks are  Chapdara (5,050m), Bodkhona (5,138m), Zamok (5,070m), Maria (4,970m), Mirali (5,120m), and Zindon (4,800m). Fann has not got only high altitude peaks, but it has many beautiful lakes as well. Lakes in a mountain are always delight for travellers. Fann mountain is indeed beautiful. Sometimes referred to as Gem of Pamirs for its beautiful lakes and peaks Fann mountain is among best Places to Visit in Tajikistan

Bartang Valley
Bartang Valley is one of the wildest valley and most remote path of crossing Pamir mountain. If you love bad unconventional roads, landslides, lot of difficulties yet full of solitude adventure then Bartang valley is must for your kind of travellers. Laid in the western Pamir range, Bartang valley will surely stay in your memory forever once you leave this amazing place in Tajikistan, Central Asia. Bartang valley is a more than delight for photographers and adventure lovers. Crossing this valley has become quite an adventure among travellers. You will get dramatic landscapes and friendly people in small village around the valley

Zeravshan Valley
Zeravshan is a mountain range which falls in Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Literal meaning of word Zeravshan in Tajik is Golden River. The Zeravshan valley receives water from Zerivshan river which crosses the valley. The valley is quite beautiful because this area is unique with its mountain landscape and it’s beautiful lakes. Full of beautiful lakes like Alauddin lake, Kulikalon lake, Iskanderkul lake and seven lakes of shing make the valley a famous tourism destination in Tajikistan and Central Asia. You can add this valley trip along with your Samarkand and Bukhara visit or you can arrange your trip to this valley from Panjakent

Ismoil Somoni Peak
Ismoil Somoni Peak is the highest peak in Tajikistan. The mountain is named after Ismail Samani, a ruler of the Samanid dynasty. A mountain with variety of names like in 1933 it was named Stalin Peak, in 1962 Communism Peak and finally in 1998 Ismoil Somoni.

Peak Korzhenevskaya
Peak Korzhenevskaya is the third highest in the Pamir Mountains of Tajikistan. It is one of the five “Snow Leopard Peaks” in the territory of the former Soviet Union

AK-Baital Pass

Ukraine
Lesser travelled than the other popular touristy corners of Europe, Ukraine is an incredible country perched on the Black Sea. It takes pride in its rich culture and history reflected in its many UNESCO Heritage sites and their well-preserved relics, the mystical beaches, a perfect blend of modern cities and traditional villages, intriguing adventures and so much more. Ukraine Tourist Places are perfect beyond comparison, especially for those looking for an ideal city break. With a great diversity of Places to visit in Ukraine and countless activities, it happens to be quite an easy task to travel around major Ukrainian cities - be it an abandoned Chornobyl, vibrant city Odesa on the seaside, the culturally rich Lviv or Ukraine’s capital city Kiev (also called Kyiv). While you are on a whistle-stop tour to the various Ukraine Attractions, do not forget to explore Kiev Attractions as the official tourism website rightly states -‘Everything Starts in Kyiv’. The city is one of the largest and greenest in Europe and is a treasure trove of culture. To list a few, Places to visit in Kiev range from historic churches, magnificent architectural treasures to classically modern attractions, recreational activities, shopping and so much more. Give yourself a break from the monotony and plug in the wings to your dream Ukraine tour. To help you revamp your Ukraine Tourist Spots list, we have compiled a list of the best Ukraine Tourist attractions.
Maidan Nezalezhnosti
Maidan Nezalezhnosti is a station on Kyiv Metros ObolonskoTeremkivska line. The station was opened on December 17 1976 and is named after Kyivs Maidan Nezalezhnosti on the Khreschatyk street. It was designed by N. Kolomiiets I. Maslenkov M. Maidan Nezalezhnosti is a station on Kyiv Metros ObolonskoTeremkivska line. The station was opened on December 17 1976 and is named after Kyivs Maidan Nezalezhnosti on the Khreschatyk street. It was designed by N. Kolomiiets I. Maslenkov M. Syrkyn and F. Zaremba.

Pyrohiv
Pyrohiv also known as Pirogov originally a village south of Kyiv is a neighborhood in the southern outskirts of the Ukrainian capital city. It is now home to an outdoor Museum of Folk Architecture and Life of Ukraine.

Kiev Pechersk Lavra
It’s a religious town in a modern city and the stronghold of the Orthodox religion. Lavra was founded in 11 century and was built in 9 following centuries. The complex is entered into the World Heritage List UNESKO. Lavra caves contain more than 200 relics of saints. On the territory of the monastery there is a number of historical and cultural museums of Ukraine, including the famous Museum of Historical Treasures, decorative folkarts, music, theater, film, exhibitions of private collections

Trukhaniv Island
Trukhaniv Island is an island located on the Dnieper River opposite the historic Podil neighbourhood of the city of Kyiv.

St. Michaels Golden-Domed Monastery
St. Michaels Golden-Domed Monastery is a functioning monastery in Kyiv the capital of Ukraine. The monastery is located on the right bank of the Dnieper River on the edge of a bluff northeast of the Saint Sophia Cathedral. The site is located in the historic administrative Uppertown and overlooks the citys historical commercial and merchant quarter the Podil neighbourhood.

Khreschatyk St


Kiev Funicular


Kiev Metro Bridge
The Metro Bridge is the first metro bridge part of the Brovarsky prospect spanning across the Dnipro River in Kyiv the capital of Ukraine. It was engineered by G. Fuks and Y. Inosov and constructed in 1965 with the expansion of the Kyiv Metro system. The bridge is used for both the Sviatoshynsko-Brovarska Line of the metro and for automobile traffic.

St. Panteleimons Cathedral
The Cathedral of St. Pantaleon or St. Panteleimon is a large Eastern Orthodox cathedral in the Kyivan neighbourhood of Theophania. It shares similarities with the Alexander Nevsky Cathedral Tallinn and is considered a high point in Russian Revival ecclesiastical architecture.

Tsum


Mariinsky Park
Mariyinsky Park is a park located in Pechersk neighborhood in front of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hrushevsky Street and Park Road. The park is also a Soviet necropolis. The park is recognized as part of the Nature Preservation Fund of Ukraine yet its official listing is not known.

Andriyivskyy Descent
This is one of the major tourist attractions in Kiev also advertised by travel operators as “Montmartre” of Kiev, Ukraine. Andriyivskyy Descent is a historical and one of the best known streets in Kiev. The descent is 720 meters in length. The descent begins on the summit of Starokyivska Hora near St. Andrews church and continues on down and goes down steeply around Zamkova Hora hill which ends near the Kontraktova Square in Podli. In early times the descent was known as Borychiv Descent and during 18-19th centuries it was inhabited mainly by merchants and crafts people. Today the descent street thrives because it has several historical monuments, buzzing gift shops, small art galleries which showcase paintings and sculptures by Ukrainian artists and so offers the travelers good time to spend here. That is why the Andriyivskyy Descent is one of the favorite spots in Kiev for tourists.

Saint Sophias Cathedral Kiev
Saint Sophia Cathedral in Kyiv is an outstanding architectural monument of Kyivan Rus. The cathedral is one of the citys best known landmarks and the first heritage site in Ukraine to be inscribed on the World Heritage List along with the Kyiv Cave Monastery complex. Aside from its main building the cathedral includes an ensemble of supporting structures such as a bell tower and th

St. Volodymyrs Cathedral


St. Andrews Church


St Volodymyrs Cathedral
St Volodymyrs Cathedral is a cathedral in the centre of Kyiv. It is one of the citys major landmarks and the mother cathedral of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church  Kyiv Patriarchate one of two major Ukrainian Orthodox Churches.

Besarabsky Market
The Besarabsky Market also referred to as the Besarabka is an indoor market located in the center of Kyiv on the Bessarabska Square at the southwest end of the citys main thoroughfare the Khreshchatyk. Constructed in 1910-1912 to a design of Polish architect Henryk Julian Gay the market features 896 square metres of market space.

Golden Gate Kiev
The Golden Gate of Kyiv was the main gate in the 11th century fortifications of Kyiv the capital of Kyivan Rus. It was named in imitation of the Golden Gate of Constantinople. The structure was dismantled in the Middle Ages leaving few vestiges of its existence. It was rebuilt completely by the Soviet authorities in 1982 though no images of the original gates have survived. The decision h

Monastery and church of St. Onuphrius Lviv
The Basilian monastery and Greek Catholic church of St. Onuphrius in Lviv Ukraine is located north of the Old Town at the base of the Castle Hill. Records mention a wooden church existed at this site already in the 13th century during the reign of Leo I of Halych. During the second half of the 15th century a monastery was built next to the church. A stone church was built in 1550 a

The Gunpowder Tower


St. George Wooden Church


Ivan Franko Park
Ivan Franko Park formerly known as Kociuszko Park and the Jesuit Gardens is a park in Lviv Ukraine. It is the oldest park in the country.

Lviv High Castle
The Lviv High Castle is a historic castle located on the top of the Castle Hill of the city of Lviv. It is currently the highest point in the city 413 metres above sea level. The castle currently stands in ruins.

Wooden Church of St. Trinity


Arsenal Museum


Odessa Catacombs
The Odessa Catacombs are a labyrinth-like network of tunnels located under the city of Odessa and its outskirts in Ukraine that are mostly the result of stone mining particularly coquina. The system of Odessa Catacombs consists of a network of basements bunkers drainage tunnels and storm drains as well as natural caves.

Arcadia Beach
Arcadia beach is Odessa Ukraines most famous beach. It is located in the Arcadia quarter. The founders of Odessa chose this name for this area in the hopes it would help make it a success as a holiday resort. There is a main beach which has water slides and several smaller beaches. Arcadia is a popular beach health resort and summer nightspot in Odessa. Its nightclubs are open fro

Shevchenko Park
Taras Shevchenko Park of Culture and Recreation is in the centre of Odessa. It is located in the central part of Odessa city. It carries the name of Taras Shevchenko since 1954.

Khreschatyk Street
The street has a length of 1.2 km (0.81 mi). It stretches from the European Square (northeast) through the Maidan and to Bessarabska Square (southwest) where the Besarabsky Market is located. Along the street are the offices of the Kiev City Council which contains both the citys council and the state administration the Main Post Office the Ministry of Agrarian Policy the State Committee of Television and Radio Broadcasting the Central Department Store (TsUM) the Ukrainian House and others.The entire street was completely destroyed during World War II by the retreating Red Army troops and rebuilt in the neo-classical style of post-war Stalinist architecture. Among prominent buildings that did not survive were the Kiev City Duma the Kiev Stock Exchange Hotel Natsional and the Ginzburg House. The street has been significantly renovated during the modern period of Ukraines independence. Today the street is still significant to administrative and business city organizations as well as a popular tourist attraction.

Independence Square
Maidan Nezalezhnosti literally Independence Square is the central square of Kyiv the capital city of Ukraine. One of the citys main squares it is located on Khreshchatyk Street in the Shevchenko Raion. The square has been known under many different names but often it is called simply Maidan (square). In the 19th century the square contained buildings of the city council and noble assembly.Since the start of Ukraines independence movement in 1990 the square has been the traditional place for political rallies including four large-scale radical protest campaigns the 1990 student Revolution on Granite the 2001 Ukraine without Kuchma the 2004 Orange Revolution and the 201314 Euromaidan. Maidan is also a regular site for non-political displays and events however since 2014 most of them were moved to Sofiyivska Square or elsewhere because making entertainment on a place where people were killed during Euromaidan was considered inappropriate. Most notably Christmas Fairs and New Year celebrations were moved to Sofiyivska Square.

Dnieper River
The Dnieper is one of the major rivers of Europe rising in the Valdai Hills near Smolensk Russia before flowing through Belarus and Ukraine to the Black Sea. It is the longest river of Ukraine and Belarus and the fourth-longest river in Europe. The total length is approximately 2200 km (1400 mi)[4] with a drainage basin of 504000 square kilometres (195000 sq mi). Historically the river was an important barrier dividing Ukraine into right and left banks. Nowadays the river is noted for its dams and hydroelectric stations. The Dnieper is an important navigable waterway for the economy of Ukraine and is connected via the DnieperBug Canal to other waterways in Europe.

Motherland Monument
This monument in Kiev is part of the Museum of History of Ukraine in World War II. The stainless steel statue stands 62 m (203 ft) tall upon the museum building with the overall structure measuring 102 m and weighing 560 tons. The sword in the statue's right hand is 16m long weighing 9 tons. This is one of the most photographed monuments and has been shown in numerous films

National Opera of Ukraine
The Odessa National Academic Theatre of Opera and Ballet is the oldest theatre in Odessa Ukraine. The Theatre and the Potemkin Stairs are the most famous edifices in Odessa. In the first decade of the 20th century the Kyiv Opera Theatre attracted the most outstanding Ukrainian and Russian singers including O. Petlyash P. Tsecevich K. Voronets M. Medvedev K. Brun O. Mosin and O. Kamionsky and famous opera stars from the West often came on tours. Several unusual for the time performances took place on the stage Die Walkure by Wagner Sadko by Rimsky-Korsakov and Mefistofele by Arrigo Boito.As Kyiv began to grow and with the conclusion of World War I the Kyiv Opera occupied a special place in the USSR and the world. The Kyiv Opera Theatre was considered to be one of the most prestigious in Ukraine and Russia. Kurt Adler was First Conductor from 1933-1935.

Bessarabsky Market
The Bessarabsky Market is an indoor market located in the center of Kiev on the Bessarabska Square at the southwest end of the citys main thoroughfare the Khreshchatyk. Constructed in 1910-1912 to a design of Polish architect Henryk Julian Gay the market features 896 square metres (9640 sq ft) of market space.Its name originates from Bessarabia a region conquered by the Russian Empire during the Russo-Turkish Wars and now partially located in southwestern Ukraine on the territory of the Odessa Oblast.

Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv
Taras Shevchenko University is renamed after Taras Shevchenko a major figure in Ukrainian literature and art. It is an institution of higher education that trains specialists in many fields of knowledge and carries out research. It is considered the most prestigious university in Ukraine and a major centre of advanced learning and progressive thinking. It consists of more faculties and departments and trains specialists in a greater number of academic fields than any other Ukrainian educational institution. The University was founded in 1834 when the Emperor Nicholas I of Russia (r. 1825-1855) signed the Charter about the creation of the University named after Saint Vladimir the ruler who Christianized the Kievan Rus. This name was chosen by the authorities of the Russian Empire where the role of Orthodox Christianity was immense and may have reflected the ongoing importance of Kiev as the cradle of Eastern Christianity for the entire Empire.

St. Andrews Church
St. Andrews Church is a major Baroque church located in Kyiv the capital of Ukraine. The church was constructed between 1747 and 1754 to a design by the Italian architect Bartolomeo Rastrelli. It is sometimes referred to as a cathedral.

Golden Gate
The Golden Gate of Kyiv was the main gate in the 11th century fortifications of Kyiv the capital of Kievan Rus. It was named in imitation of the Golden Gate of Constantinople. The structure was dismantled in the Middle Ages leaving few vestiges of its existence.

Museum of Historical Treasures of Ukraine


National Historical Museum of Ukraine
The National Museum of the History of Ukraine illustrates Ukraines history from ancient times till nowadays.

Patriarchal Cathedral of Christs Resurrection


Primorsky Boulevard
Situated within the Primorsky district in Odessa Appartments near Primorsky boulevard A12 has air conditioning a balcony and garden views. It is set 2.3 km from Lanzheron Beach and features free WiFi plus an ATM. The apartment has 2 bedrooms a flat-screen TV with cable channels an equipped kitchen with a dishwasher and a microwave a washing machine and 1 bathroom with a s

St. Michaels Golden-Domed Monastery


The Pyrohovo Museum
This museum contains over 300 pieces of folk architecture brought here from all parts of Ukraine and carefully reassembled. You can rest and take smart pictures there, also you will taste traditional Ukrainian food "varenyky" and drink "moonshine" in Pyrohovo. Besides, you can buy handmade pottery, embroidery, shoes, wooden kitchenware, accessories, sculptures, pictures, hats and more. You can also take a ride in a horse carriage if you wish. Pyrohovo Museum was founded in late 1960 but opened to public only after a decade. So the museum saw its first visitor in 1976. This museum is located only 12 KM to the southwest of Kiev in the beautiful setting of Pyrohovo village

The Dnieper River Yacht Trip
Is one of the favorite types of recreation in Kyiv. The 1,420-mile Dnieper, Europe's third-longest river (after the Volga and the Danube). A boat trip along the Dnieper River is a journey of discovery: Explore ancient historical sights, gaze upon grand monuments and encounter a vibrant culture rich in tradition. See how differing societies from the Vikings to the Tatars and the Cossack shave influenced the architecture and people living in the capital city of Ukraine. Enjoy your time of scenic cruising, taking in the Dnieper's landscape of rolling hills with ancient groves. Do you want to cross the Dnieper without getting wet? - Sure. You can walk to Trukhaniv island which is connected with the city by means of the Parkovy pedestrian bridge. The island is a paradise for fishers who enjoy sitting on the banks of the river and admire beautiful landscapes

The Kyiv Funicular
It’s a ride that should be on every tourist’s list of fascinating things to explore. The funicular connects the historic upper town to the lower Podil district through the steep hill and gives you the opportunity to explore the breathtakingly beautiful scenery of Kyiv and also view the Dnieper River. You can also click nice selfies there. The total gradient of the slope is 36%.

Dolphinarium in Kiev
Dolphinarium is a huge entertainment center. You are sure to have a lot of fun and incredible emotions. You can also swim with dolphins and take pictures. Photos with dolphins and seals will leave in your memory unforgettable positive memories from communicating with amazing sea animals

Saint Sophia's Cathedral
St. Sophia's Cathedral, built in 1037, is not only the significant cathedral and prominent landmark in Kiev, but it represents the history of the city and the beauty of the architectural splendour of centuries gone by

War Museum
The National Museum of the History of Ukraine, one of the largest museums in Ukraine centered on the now famous 62-meter tall Motherland statue, the best recognized landmarks of Kiev.

Arsenalna, Kiev - Deepest Metro Station
Arsenalna is a station on Kiev Metro’s Sviatoshynsko-Brovarska Line. Arsenalna on Kiev city metro line (Sviatoshynsko – Brovarska Line) is the deepest metro station in the world right now. It is 105.5 m deep. Escalators take you deep down so that you can catch the train. The reason why Arsenalna had to be 105.5 m deep is because it had to bypass Dnieper river which rises above Kiev city and surrounds it. You will go for five long minutes on escalator to reach 105.5 m deep down station.

Lviv’s Ploshcha Rynok
Lviv is said to be the Central European city which has graceful domes of its many cathedrals, and chimneys on its tiled roofs. It is right to say that Lviv attracts more visitors than any other city in Ukraine. And so Lviv has been rightly rewarded as Ukraine’s number one tourist place. There is Ploshcha Rynok or Rynok Square, a central square of the city of Lviv in Ukraine. The square was planned in 14th century but most of the Lviv city was destroyed by a great fire in 1527. The square was designed Rynok square is rectangular in shape and measures 142 meters by 129 meters and out of every corner of it two street radiates. In the middle of the square there was row of houses, and the southern wall made by the town hall. In 1825 when the tower of the town hall was burnt all houses nearby were burnt too and then in 1835 a new hall with 65 meter tower was built. Ploshcha Rynok was recognised as world heritage site by UNESCO along with historic city center of Lviv in 1998

Lviv Theatre of Opera and Ballet
Lviv Opera and Ballet Theatre, located in Lviv, is Ukraine's largest western city and one of its historic cultural centres. Originally built on former marshland of the submerged Poltva River, the Lviv Opera now sits at the end of Freedom Avenue.

Market Square
Market Square is the central square in Lviv and the heart of its historic centre. It appeared in the 14th century, and its look is typical of the squares that all medieval Polish and German towns possess.

Odessa City
Odessa is a romantic city and has been adored by artists, sculptors, writers and poets for its most beautiful opera houses, diverse museums and galleries, peaceful gardens and amazing architecture. Odessa's warm sea breeze, sunny beaches, picturesque coastal areas and therapeutic mud from salt lagoons are the places which Odessa reserves for its famous health resorts and treatment facilities. Local cuisines like kilka, forshmak, tzimmes, aubergine pate, fried gobbies are very popular. Odessa welcomes visitors at any time of year and always has something special and memorable in store for them with its festivals, bright nightspots, theaters, music clubs and just boundless joy

Underwater Museum
Underwater Museum of USSR leaders is located near Odessa beach at a depth of 6 - 10 meters. It’s open for divers and tourists who want to dive into the world of Soviet era from middle of May till the end of September. The exposition presents sculptures of Soviet Union political leaders, naval artefacts, anchors of different epochs, cannonballs of Crimean War, anti-landing hedgehogs of World War II, Greek statues and anchors.

One Wall House
One Wall House, built as an apartment house in 1889, is one of the most famous sights of the historic centre of Odessa. A look from a certain angle creates the illusion of lack of side walls of the house which is just adjacent to the facade at a very acute angle

Tunnel of Love
Just outside the city of Klevan in Ukraine, a nearly two-mile stretch of private railway has turned the surrounding trees into an enchanting natural tunnel. The romantic setting earned its nickname, the ‘Tunnel of Love’. This is a place for people who are head over heels in love. Earlier it was a normal travel spot in Ukraine but now it is known as one of the most romantic places on the planet. The railway section is about 3 to 5 KM in length and it is surrounded by green arches. The railway line starts at Klevan station and goes to northern area of Orzhiv. Major part of the railway line is covered by forest. In this entire length, the tunnel stretches up to 5 KM. “Tunnel of Love” is super popular among couples.

Kolomyya City
Kolomyya is a city located in western Ukraine and it is a great tourist attraction in Ukraine. Kolomyya is famous for its architectural monuments. So all those travelers who love to explore monuments in different cities around the world must be here. Kolomyya is old and it is beleived it was founded in 4th century and it is known as a symbol of a rebirth of forgotten places, the pearl of the soul of the Hutsul region. The city got mentioned first by the Hypatian Chronicle in 1240 and in 1241 in the Galician-Volhynian Chronicle. Kolomyya has lot of tourist attractions. It has nice and orderly streets, numerous buildings of 19th and 20th centuries with great decoration and you can easily observe city character heavily expressed by Austro-Hungarian buildings. If you love to explore art work of a place then you should visit Kolomyya

Kamyanets-Podilskyi City
Kamianets-Podilskyi is a city in western Ukraine on the Smotrych River. The city is culturally rich because all those people who lived here brought their culture and architecture along. One can see the examples of it which include Polish, Ruthenian and Armenian markets. It's known for its well-preserved Old Town and Kamianets-Podilskyi Castle, a medieval fortress featuring several original towers. Castle Bridge, which leads to the city proper, also dates from the Middle Ages. The open-air Museum of Miniatures presents replicas of Ukrainian castles. Podilski Tovtry National Park is a huge nature preserve home to historical monuments. Kamyanets-Podilisky is one of the oldest cities in Ukraine and is a phenomenon of a great cultural heritage

Bukovel Ski Resort
If you are a traveler who loves to see breathtaking sights then Ukraine is definitely for you. And those who love to see the natural beauty in its ultimate form; they also find Ukraine a super travel destination. Ukraine has some exciting places where you can experience some great adventure activities. One such place is Bukovel Ski Resort. This is located in the Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast of Western Ukraine. This is one of the most famous Ski Resorts in Ukraine located on the ridge lines of famous Carpathian Mountains. Bukovel is located at the elevation of 3000 ft. and has already been recognized as fastest growing world ski resort. Thousands of people every year come here in the winters to enjoy winter activities along with stunning view of nature

Mount Hoverla - Highest Mountain in Ukraine
Mount Hoverla at 2,061 metres, is the highest mountain in Ukraine and part of the Carpathian Mountains. The mountain is located in the Eastern Beskides, in the Chornohora region. The slopes are covered with beech and spruce forests, above which there is a belt of sub-alpine meadows called polonyna in Ukrainian. Since the late 19th century Mount Hoverla has been a notable tourist attraction. Over the years mountain got popularity as an extreme sports site also

Carpathian Landscapes
Ukraine is one country which has plenty of natural beauty with beautiful mountain range to offer to visitors. If you are taking a Ukraine tour then think of Ukrainian Carpathian Mountains. Located in the western Ukraine on the territories of Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsk, Zakarpattia and Chernovtsy oblasts, Carpathians is supremely beautiful and the landscape must not be missed when one is on a Ukraine trip. The Carpathian Mountain in total is a mountain range in arc form, 1500 KM long which spreads across Central and Eastern Europe. The height of the mountain goes up to 2000 m along the main ridge. With this length Carpathians is the second longest mountain range in Europe. Carpathian is popularly famous as Green pearl of Ukraine and is one of the most popular tourist destinations in Ukraine

Nesamovyte Lake
Nesamovyte lake is located in the north eastern slopes of Turkul mountain at the height of above 1700 meters. Nesamovyte is also called cirque lake. Why cirque lake? Because it is situated in an amphitheatre like large cirque which is formed at the head of a valley glacier. The lake is 88 meter long and 45 meter wide with area of around 3000 square meter. Nesamovyte Lake is a sky high kind of lake but it is not alone in the but in fact Carpathians mountain has many such sky high lakes. All of these sits at heights between 1400 m to 1800 m. So Nesamovyte with height of 1700 m is quite interesting place. At the banks of the lake you will find trees and subalpine herbs. Lake is around 1.5 m deep and water also comes from rain and snow.

Dragobrat - Highest Ski Resort in Ukraine
Dragobrat is the highest Skiing Resort in Ukraine as of now. Situated at the height of 1300 m that goes up to 1800 m Dragobrat offers the most spectacular view from the top of the highest mountain Hoverla in Ukraine. Dragobrat is more supported by nature than machines when it comes to snow filling. But that is not a point to worry about, because the resort gets snow up to 5 m high and is good enough for skiing from November to May. Now Dragobrat Ski Resort is well known place among the tourists. Dragobrat has 5 lifts and there is 20 tracks with different difficulty level for Skiers and ski equipment are easily available on rent

Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve
The Danube Delta is the second largest river delta in Europe, after the Volga Delta, and is the best preserved on the continent. Most part of the Danube delta is in Romania while its northern part on the left bank of the Chilia arm is situated in Odessa Oblast Ukraine. Danube delta is a great host to hundreds of species of birds and fishes in its numerous lakes and marshes. So travelers can spend few days here to explore the passages of the delta along with best and highest concentration of bird colonies in all of Europe. Danube delta is 2200 miles of rivers, canals, marshes, lakes, and reed islands. In nutshell Danube delta is a paradise for wildlife enthusiast and more so for bird watchers

Sofiyivka Park
Sofiyivka Park is an Arboretum and scientific researching institute of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Sofiyivka Park can also be termed as museum of nature because everything in the park is enchanting beauty. The park is located in the northern part of the City of Uman, Cherkasy Oblast, near the Kamianka River. Today Sofiyivka Park is a popular recreational spot and is visited by as many as 5, 00,000 visitors every year. There are some beautiful garden designs in the world. Sofiyivka is one of those scenic landmarks and is world class gardening design which was founded in 1796 and was built in 1802

Tbilisi Funicular and Dry Bridge
Tbilisi Funicular is one of the finest examples of cable railways in the world. The railway leads to a beautiful leisure and amusement park Mtatsminda, which overlooks the entire city. The Funicular Complex restaurant building has a couple of great places to eat or drink. It's also usually several degrees cooler up here than in the city below, which can be very welcome in the heat of summer. To ride the funicular you need a 2 GEL plastic card (sold at the ticket office) on which you then add credit for your rides (and any rides in the Mtatsminda amusement park). The funicular cliff train price is 2 GEL from 09:00 till midnight, but after 00:00 price of the ride will be 3 GEL. The Dry Bridge is well-known for its flea market, where you can find art exhibitions, and antique items for sale

Gabriadze Theater
Founded in 1981, it became the first Georgian puppet theatre. The building is decorated with a magnificent clock tower, which once a day, at 12:00 features a performance of figurines. Though modest in size, The Gabriadze Theater is among the world’s preeminent cultural institutions. Presenting mature puppet performances full of depth and meaning, it has gained the respect and recognition of international audiences and critics alike. The Gabriadze Theater stands in the heart of Tbilisi’s historic Old Town. This beautiful building of the unique marionette theatre was designed by Gabriadze himself

Rustaveli Avenue
Rustaveli Avenue is in capital city Tbilisi, Georgia. Formerly known as Golovin street, Rustaveli avenue is cultural hub of tourist attractions in Tbilisi. The avenue is most considered one in Tbilisi because a large number of government, cultural, public and business buildings are located here which includes The National Gallery, National Museum, Georgian academy of sciences, Opera and Ballet, State Theatre, Kashveti Church and Parliament. This site in the past has seen anti government protests also. The Rustaveli Avenue is accessible via metro and bus quite easily. The avenue is 1.5 km long and starts with Rustaveli cinema. So you are guaranteed to have a great time here with Tbilisi opera house and Rustaveli theatre both being on the Rustaveli avenue

Mtskheta Old City & Jvari Monastery
Mtskheta is one of the oldest cities of Georgia, at the confluence of the Aragvi and Kura rivers. Mtskheta is one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in the world. Due to its historical significance and several cultural monuments, the "Historical Monuments of Mtskheta" became a UNESCO World Heritage Site. As the birthplace and one of the most vibrant centers of Christianity in Georgia, Mtskheta was declared as the "Holy City" by the Georgian Orthodox Church in 2014. Jvari Monastery stands on the rocky mountaintop overlooking the town of Mtskheta, which was formerly the capital of the Kingdom of Iberia. A small church called "Small Church of Jvari" was built at the site of a cross and draws pilgrims from all over Caucasus

Armazi Fortress
Armazi is a locale in Georgia, 4 km southwest of Mtskheta and 22 km northwest of Tbilisi. A part of historical Greater Mtskheta, it is a place where the ancient city of the same name and the original capital of the early Georgian kingdom of Kartli or Iberia was located. Considering its scale and antiquity - Armazi is one of the most important fortresses in the country. Currently, remains of the fortress occupy 30 hectares. The fortress used to block the road to the bordering countries beyond the Caucasus

Vardzia Cave Monastery
Vardzia Monastery is a cave monastery in southern Georgia,  excavated from the slopes of the Erusheti Mountain on the left bank of the Kura River, thirty kilometres from Aspindza. Vardzia is centuries old monastery, now part of state heritage reserve. The space around the monastery looks beautiful. You will have a great time here walking in and around Vardiza Monastery in Georgia. The caves entice you to look inside. This cave palace monastery built by Georgians in the Caucasus for their fabled queen Tamar seems to be taken directly from a Hollywood movie in its appearance.

Simon Janashia Museum of Georgia
The Simon Janashia Museum of Georgia, formerly known as the State Museum of History of Georgia, is one of the main history museums in Tbilisi, Georgia, which displays the country’s principal archaeological findings. The origins of the Museum date back to the 19th century. Today, the Museum exhibits Georgia’s principal archaeological findings and thousands of artefacts of immense historical significance; animal remains datingback 40 million years, archaeological and ethnographic collections from the Paleolithic, Neolithic, Bronze, Iron and Middle Ages
Belarus
If you are someone who wants to explore an offbeat destination that throws open the chance to discover the lush primaeval forests, has the places that take you back to the Soviet eras as well as boasts amazing nightlife, Belarus is the country you must visit. Sandwiched by Poland, Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia and Russia, this country occupies a relatively unexplored corner of Eastern Europe but there are plenty of interesting places to visit in Belarus that are sure to give a ping on your travel radar. Besides all its World War II history and architecture, there are colossal forts and castles, more than 11,000 lakes, the majestic capital Minsk, delicious potato dishes and some unmissable art and music scenes that deserve global attention. The wide portfolio of Belarus tourist attractions, therefore, offers an intriguing blend of the ancient and the modern; it is here where you can take a trip back in time while you have plenty of opportunities to keep up with the contemporary side of life.  Belarus tourism begins with Minsk, the capital city flourishing on its pulsating nightlife, outstanding museums and an impressive collection of Stalin-era architecture along with the lovely Minsk people and this happy coexistence is what makes Minsk so special. Since the time it has taken the top position on most of Belarus’ travel checklist backed by the relaxed visa regime, the capital has witnessed a consistent surge in tourism numbers. Out of all its notable landmarks that attract visitors from far and near, one of the most eye-catching Minsk tourist attractions is the glorious street of Independence Avenue lined with many chic cafes along with the dancing fountains illuminated with lights. Other must-visit Minsk Attractions include Gorky Central Children's Park, Zair Azgur Memorial Studio, old town, National History Museum, Kamaroŭski market and more. Not to mention, if you are an art admirer, you are sure to fall head over heels in love with the city’s street art that adorns even the hidden yards running along the main avenue.  Planning your trip to Belarus? Read on to discover the top Belarus Attractions, lesser-visited routes, historic marvels along with some of the incredibly unique places to visit in Minsk.
Trinity Hill


Upper City


Corpus Christi Church Nesvizh
The Corpus Christi Church in Nesvizh Belarus is an early Jesuit church and one of the oldest baroque structures outside Italy influencing the later architecture of Poland Belarus and Lithuania. Commissioned by Prince Nicholas Radziwill and constructed in 1587-1593 by Gian Maria Bernardoni during the times of the PolishLithuanian Commonwealth it contains tombs of powerful Radiziwi

Victory Park
Victory Park is the largest park in Minsk. The history of the park began when Komsomolskoye Lake was created by the impediment of the Sveslokh River. It was planned to open the park in 1941. There are colorful fountains in Victory Park. The fountains have symbolic names like Victory Eternity and the LED fountain Sail which is situated on the water of the lake.

National Library of Belarus
The National Library of Belarus is the biggest library in the Republic of Belarus. The library is located in Minsk the capital of Belarus. It houses the largest collection of Belarusian printed materials and the third largest collection of books in Russian behind the Russian State Library and the Russian National Library.

Nesvizh Castle
Niasvi Castle or Nesvizh Castle is a residential castle of the Radziwi family in Niasvi Belarus. It is 183 metres above sea level.

Belarusian Great Patriotic War Museum
The Belarusian Great Patriotic War Museum is a museum in Minsk Belarus. The conception of a museum commemorating the German-Soviet War after the end of Nazi occupation sprung up even before the close of the war. The museum first opened shortly after the liberation of Minsk from the Nazi invaders on 25 October 1944 making it the first World War II museum to open during the c

Mir Castle Complex
The 16th-century castle is one of the places to visit in Belarus reflection on the pond like its straight out of Disney. It’s a Gothic style construction which was built in 1520 by duke IIinich and by 1568; it was in the hands of Mikolay Radziwil who completed the construction into Renaissance style. The castle has such a spectacular look which now makes it on the list of UNESCO World Heritage Site

Independence Square Minsk
Independence Square is a square in Minsk Belarus. It is one of the landmarks on Independence Avenue. The Supreme Soviet of Belarus and Minsk City Hall are on this square. During the period of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic it was called Lenin Square. It is currently one of the biggest squares in Europe.

Stalins Line
The Historical and Cultural Complex Stalin line is 26 km from the Minsk and 6 km from Zaslavl town. The Historical and Cultural Complex Stalin line was founded on 60-th anniversary of soviet people Victory in the Great Patriotic war and it was opened on th

Dudutki


Holy Spirit Cathedral
The Holy Spirit Cathedral in Minsk Belarus is dedicated to the Holy Spirit. It is the central cathedral of the Belarusian Orthodox Church. The cathedral located on Cyril and Methodius Street dates back to 16331642 when the Bernardine monastery was built at a time when the city was part of the PolishLithuanian Commonwealth. The building was damaged by fire in 1741 and required th

Cathedral of Saint Virgin Mary
Cathedral of the Holy Name of Mary is a Roman Catholic baroque cathedral in Minsk. It is the seat of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Minsk-Mohilev.Cathedral of the Holy Name of Mary is a Roman Catholic baroque cathedral in Minsk. It is the seat of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Minsk-Mohilev.

Ministry of Internal Affairs Museum


Pishchalauski Castle
The Minsk Detention Center No. 1 is the central prison of the Republic of Belarus located in Minsk.

Palace of Republic
The modern hospitable building is a theatre and performance center. Apart from this it is also an important place where big decisions are announced in relation to summits meetings seminars conferences etc. It is located in the city center and one of the most popular attractions. It is used for official state functions including forums meetings conventions concerts symphony orchestras and New Years events.The Palace is also home to a 3D cinema and several bars cafes and clubs in its surrounding space. Taking a mere 25 years from concept to a fully operational status the Palace of the Republic was finally completed in full in 2001.

Belarusian State Museum of the History of the Great Patriotic War
The museum was founded on 30 September 1943 by the resolution of the Bureau of Belarus Communist Party Central Committee. It was opened for visitors on 22 October 1944 in the liberated city of Minsk in the left intact building of the Trade Union House on Liberty Square. By the order of the Ministry of Culture of the Belarusian Soviet Socialist Republic on 15 December 1966 the museum was dislocated to Lenin Av. 25a (now Nezalezhnast Av.). It was the first museum in the world of this theme. Nowadays the museum is the most important institution of national memory about the great deed of Belarusian people and the people of the Soviet Union in the struggle against Nazism. The museum became one of the research centers about the Great Patriotic War.There are 24 exhibition halls. The main sections of the exposition are The Battles in the Westerly Direction. 1941-1942 German-Nazi Occupation in Belarus.  The museum collaborates with the museums of Russia Ukraine Slovakia Germany etc. The museum has a branch the Memorial Republican Monument to the Internationalist Soldiers in the city of Minsk.

Zaslawskaye Reservoir(Minsk Sea)
Minsk Sea (actually its Zaslaskaje Water Reservoir) is located just 10 km away from Minsk. It is an artificial lake created in 1956 to prevent overflows of the river Svisla and to host Soviet sanatoriums and tour bases. Its surface stretches to 31 sq. km and the lake is mostly 8 meters deep. The best sunsets and the starriest nights are all caught up here among the woods and swamps big water and vast beaches. its a beautiful lake with equipped and wild beaches surrounded by woods and swamps. The wild beaches may require a good walk to find and fully furnished are placed all around the lake. They usually have a dressing spot benches and iron sun-protecting umbrellas few playgrounds for kids and for beach games some alcoves and campfire pits.Among other spots we may recommend Meridian yacht club  riding a yacht like a real sailor is always a good idea As well you may try windsurfing  there is a cozy windsurfing club Extreme with a private beach. If you are more into a calm pastime a boat station offers a boat-ride.

Church of Saints Simon and Helena
The Church of Saints Simon and Helena also known as the Red Church is a Roman Catholic church on Independence Square in Minsk Belarus. This neo-Romanesque church was designed by Polish architects Tomasz Pajzderski and Wadysaw Marconi. The cornerstone was laid in 1905 and the church was completed in 1910.

Island of Tears
A small footbridge leads from the Old Town to the Island of Tears a memorial set up in 1988 to commemorate Belarusian soldiers who died in the USSRs disastrous 9-year war in Afghanistan. The memorials centerpiece is the chapel with haunting figures of grieving mothers sisters and windows at its base. A nearby fountain features the boy-like figure of an angel rigged up to cry teardrops. You may notice that a certain part of his anatomy is shinier than the rest. This is explained by the Belarusian tradition of newlyweds visiting war memorials on their wedding day and a modern folk belief that if the bride gropes this poor young lads privates shell be guaranteed children.

Minsk Gates
The Gates of the City of Minsk are two symmetrical high towers in the style of Stalin classicism. These two 11-story tall towers are the symbolic entrance to Minsk. The architecture of these massive towers is nothing short of breathtaking and they are a must-see landmark in Minsk.  One of the towers houses a 100-year-old clock that was won over by the Germans. The Gate of Minsk indelibly impresses at night due to its interesting and thoroughly projected lighting.

Saint Simon and Saint Helena Church
Theres a great legendary story behind the church and therefore the locals love it. It was made on the orders of a Royal family between 1908 and 1910. There are two small towers and a bronze statue in front of the church which adds beauty to the church. Church of Saints Simon and Helena also known as the Red Church is a Roman Catholic church on Independence Square in Minsk Belarus. This neo-Romanesque church was designed by Polish architects Tomasz Pajzderski and Wadysaw Marconi. The cornerstone was laid in 1905 and the church was completed in 1910.The Church of Saints Simon and Helena is a Roman Catholic church that was built at the beginning of the 20th century. Its construction was financed by Edward Woynillowicz who was a famous public figure. Edward and his wife had two requests before they decided to finance the construction. First of all they wanted to choose the project by themselves. In addition they wanted to name the church after their children Simon and Helena who died at an early age. That is why this church is named after the Saints Simon and Helena. Famous Polish architects Tomasz Pajzderski and Wladyslaw Marconi designed the Red Church.

Gorky Park
Gorky Park is a public park in Minsk Belarus. It is located near Victory Square and Yanka Kupala Park. The park was established in 1800 under the name Governors Garden. During the Soviet times it was renamed        after the famous RussianSoviet writer Maksim Gorky.

Alivaria Brewery Museum
A fascinating guided tour around the territory of the 155-year-old brewery. One of the oldest operating breweries in Minsk Here you will learn everything about brewing development from the very beginning till nowadays and you will see ancient brewing equipment and modern departments.

Independence Square


October Square Minsk
October Square is a square in the center of Minsk Belarus which is located between Independence Avenue Engels Street and International Street. To its east side there are areas limited to buildings of the Palace of Culture of Trade Unions the Museum of the Great Patriotic War and the Minsk Palace of Republic.

Braslav Lake Area
The Braslav Lake Area is one of the ancient terrains left by the glacier, and its major assets are its lakes. There are about 300 lakes in this area of various forms, depths, sizes, water transparency and composition. Therefore, with such unusual beauty and characteristics, they are all called the blue necklace beauty of Belarus. The deepest lake here is South Voloso and the biggest is Drivyaty

Minsk
Minsk is the capital city of the country and its one of Belarus tourist attractions which have a lot to offer visitors. In the evening, it gives a different vibe to visitors which make it perfect for an evening stroll by the pretty fountains and the dancing lights. Independence Avenue is not to be missed here as it is the best place for restaurants, cafes, bars, gardens, parks and a vibrant nightlife

Lida City
Lida is home to the Lida castle, located in western Belarus, which was constructed in the 14th century. The trapezium shape of the castle is what made it famous. However, the crimson walls which are the result of decorative brickwork add to the beauty.

Nyasvizh Castle
Nyasvizh Castle used to be a complex in Poland and was a residential castle of a royal family, Radziwill in Belarus. It was owned by the family and by 1706; it was seized by Charles XII in the Great Northern War destroying all of its fortifications. The castle has more than 30 fully furnished rooms with courtyards which are very impressive.

Belovezhskaya Pushcha National Park
One of the best things to do in Belarus is exploring the Belovezhskaya Pushcha National Park. It is home to a large population of European Bison and many other animals. The park covers both Poland and Belarus and famous for its lush green area with many kinds of flora and fauna around it. Apart from Bison, there are many other animals found here such as wild boar, semi-wild horses, elk and many others

Museum of the Great Patriotic War
The Museum of the Great Patriotic War is Minsk’s best museum houses which displays an excellent gallery of Belarus’s history. It is Belarus attractions for many years as it shows the heroism and suffering of Belarus during the Nazi occupation. The museum has about 24 exhibition halls of which there are 142,676 items in the collection.

Brest Hero Fortress Memorial Complex
The 19th-century fortress was formerly known as Brest-Litovsk Fortress erected in the city of Brest. It is Belarus tourist places dedicated to the heroes of the Great Patriotic War. When the fortress was first constructed, it was invaded many times and the battle lasted till 23 July 1941. It was then reconstructed in the late 1960s as a war memorial and is a place of national pride and grief of the country

Gomel Palace
The Gomel Palace is of historical importance in the country located on the right bank of the Sozh River. The Neo-classical design is a two storey palace of Pyotr Rumyantsev and became part of the Russian empire. It is today Belarus’s prettiest park on such a beautiful spot. One of the best things to do in Belarus is not to miss and explore such architecture and beauty.

National Park Pripyatsky
The National Park Pripyatsky is also known as Belarus’s Amazon land for its amazing forest and swamps found in this forest. It is a natural reserve founded in 1996 and much of its area surrounded by turf swamps. It’s one of the best-kept secrets in Belarus which is located about 250 km of Minsk. The park is a paradise for bird watchers with more than 250 avian species

Minsk Sea
The Minsk Sea is an artificially created reservoir which is located to the north of the capital city. A popular Belarus tourist spots among locals and tourists alike. Summer is a good time to visit and on the edge of finding the sandy beaches with nice restaurants and local cafes. The sea is overgrown with bank grass which acts a recreation place. The natural balance of nature of the area has lured many tourists to visit the sea.

Circus in Belarus
The circus art is one of the biggest circus organisations in Belarus, it has been known to the world since 1941. It has a hall capacity of 1625 with a list of 68 artists and performers. People from all over the world visit to see the great events happening in circus art, and it’s welcomed over 340000 visitors over the years to date. The events happen to be on a daily occasion on various themes, festivals, ceremonies etc.

Spa for Families in Belarus
The princess spa is one of the well-known spa and hairdresser in Belarus to give anyone an unforgettable feeling of calm, beauty and relaxation. They offer services in massage for the head, foot, body, hand, facial etc, body care with exquisite procedures, facial care with different kinds of program, hair care program and many others

Dukorsky Mayentse
Dukorsky Mayentse was made with the intention to showcase the historical information of Belarus. And, all of the historical events are performed through dances, gentry’s weapons, old customers making by a group of performers at the complex. It is also a perfect resort for a family weekend getaway from the city. They offer a zoo, park, activities, spa, museum, Rope town, tents, the glade of fairytales and many more

Banquet in Belarus
Astoria Riverside is one of the largest Banquets in Belarus and can accommodate 2000 people. It’s the most recognizable gastronomic premium size complex. It comprises of Hall Astoria, Garden of Eden, Cottages, Winter Garden, Cottages, and summer terraces for one to enjoy and dine in a relaxed nature. The menu offers dishes and cuisines where everyone would find food to their liking

Corporate Events in Belarus
Nanosy is a complex located at the peninsula of Lake Naroch offering a good housewarming for corporate events right from accommodation, food, entertainment programs, banquet etc. They organised the event on an international level with a class and touch of Belarus culture and traditions. While you are here, you can also visit the museum and stroll along the pier, try some fresh oven bread and breathe in some nice fresh air of the clean nature.

Belarus Wedding Venue
Agriturismo "Zarechany" is just 24 km away from Minsk along the Pitch River. It has a romantic atmosphere which makes it suitable for weddings, corporate events and even just a weekend getaway. A wedding in this estate is like a fairy tale dream where you have a landscape surrounding you with only a rest house over the water and adorn the place simply in bohemian look

Beautiful Island Resort in Belarus
Lode is the one of the first wooden houses ever built among the green forest on the island. And, in 2002, the first guest appeared in the resort, overtime the island became more popular and today Lode is filled with visitors from all over the world. It has over three dozen cottages, dining room, gazebos, wooden chalets and other amazing amenities and facilities.

Dark Chocolates in Belarus
Chocolates are amazing in Belarus, and their dark chocolate is even better. So, if you are looking for dark chocolates in Belarus, you should stop by Spartak and Onlydarkchocolate. These are the two places that make fine dark chocolate from Melanie and the taste gets so bitter in your tongue. They are the largest confectioners in Belarus and produce the best dark chocolates

Club in Minsk
Robinson Club is a unique country club on the coast of Minsk Sea, which is about 7 Km from Minsk. It has rooms, House Cottage, Cottages for the day, long rental cottages, a restaurant, summer terrace, spa complex, corporate events, gazebos for relaxing and many others. You could have a weekend tour at the Robinson club and enjoy the health care and comfort offered by the club

Nightlife in Belarus
Friend restaurant is a friendly restaurant suitable for all kinds of events with great food, drinks, music, dance, performers and so on so forth. They have Czech made brewery with 31 brand beer of its own. The restaurant hosts a number of live concerts with grand celebration from the best artists in town. There’s also the karaoke night where you can sing your souls out and have good time with an unforgettable holiday
Sweden
Sweden is an exotic holiday destination in Europe. With its blessed landscapes, far-off cities, unspoiled forests, fairy lakes, and rich heritage, Sweden is every traveler’s heaven. From opulent palaces to medieval towns, vast Arctic landscapes, and the Ice hotel, no destination is better than Sweden. Sweden’s rich history offers a multitude of historical landmarks, museums, and architectural marvels to visit. There is no doubt that Sweden tourist attractions are plentiful. A tourist will get to see and experience a lot of things. The top Sweden attractions include historic towns, natural attractions, vibrant cities, unique culture, and more. Sweden is home to thousands of rivers, forests, and lakes that offers ample opportunities for tourists to indulge in Kayaking, fishing, hiking, and other outdoor adventures. Among the best places to visit in Sweden is its unspoiled countryside. Sweden’s beautiful and charming towns offer raw and exquisite natural beauty. Another major draw for tourists is the majestic and vibrant cities of Sweden. Stockholm, the capital city of Sweden, is popularly known as the Venice of the North. This city put forward stunning architecture, cultural offerings, and rich history for tourists. Travelers can visit the Gamla Stan, Vasa Museum, Skansen & Djurgarden, and more. One of the popular Sweden tourist spots is Liseberg Theme Park. Every year this theme park lures millions of tourists. There is a huge range of attractions- from fairy-tale castles to adrenaline-pumping rides, bumper cars, and four roller coaster rides. Gothenburg, the second-largest city in Sweden, is a captivating city offering a renowned charm. It is home to rusted art galleries, calm & lively night streets, and Michelin-star restaurants across the streets. Besides the many Sweden tourist attractions, there are unique cultural offerings. One of the popular cultural festivals in Sweden is Midsummer, which is celebrated in June every year. At this festival, all the Swedish people gather to dance around, sing traditional songs, and enjoy a delectable feast. One of the must-see Sweden tourist places is Sarek National Park. It is an ideal destination for mountaineers and hikers. This national park is home to over 200 peaks and more than 100 glaciers. The Oresund Bridge is another one of the famous Sweden attractions and the most iconic in Europe. Gammelstad Church Town is another one of the must-visit places to visit in Sweden. The highlight of this place is its red wooden houses covered in white snow. This unique attraction depicts the communal spirit and country’s lifestyle that dominates in the parts of Sweden. Among countless castles and palaces in Sweden, one of the most famous is Drottningholm Palace. Built in the 16th century, the Drottningholm is currently home to the Swedish Royal family. This palace is also Sweden’s most elegant architectural attraction. Sweden is a fantastic tourist destination for someone who loves natural beauty, cultural offerings, vibrant cities, rich history, and commendable attractions. Whether you want to explore outdoor adventures, discover Sweden’s history, or experience the natural beauty, this country offers something for everyone. If you are in the middle of planning your trip to Sweden, you must check out Dook’s tour packages. Our Sweden tour packages have every attraction, from Vasa Museum to City Hall, Djurgarden, Skansen, Drottningholm Palace, and more. Now is your chance to tick off this amazing destination from your bucket list.
Vasa Museum
The Vasa Museum is a maritime museum in Stockholm Sweden. Located on the island of Djurgrden the museum displays the only almost fully intact 17th century ship that has ever been salvaged the 64-gun warship Vasa that sank on her maiden voyage in 1628. The Vasa Museum opened in 1990 and according to the official web site is the most visited museum in Scandinavia. Together with other museums such as the Stockholm Maritime Museum it belongs to the Swedish National Maritime Museums.

Skansen
Skansen is the first open-air museum and zoo in Sweden and is located on the island Djurgrden in Stockholm Sweden. It was opened on 11 October 1891 by Artur Hazelius to show the way of life in the different parts of Sweden before the industrial era. The name Skansen has also been used as a noun to refer to other open-air museums and collections of historic structures particularly in Central and Eastern Europe but also in the United States e.g. Old World Wisconsin and Fairplay Colorado.

ABBA The Museum
ABBA The Museum is a Swedish interactive exhibition about the pop band ABBA that opened in Stockholm Sweden in May 2013. ABBAs collected works are showcased in a contemporary interactive setting at Djurgrden Stockholm.

Djurgrden
Djurgrden or more officially Kungliga Djurgrden is an island in central Stockholm Sweden.

Drottningholm Palace
The Drottningholm Palace is the private residence of the Swedish royal family. Drottningholm is near the capital Stockholm. Built on the island of Lovn it is one of Swedens Royal Palaces. It was originally built in the late 16th century and it served as a regular summer residence of the Swedish royal court for most of the 18th century. Apart from being the private residence of the Swedish royal family the palace is a popular tourist attraction.

City Hall
The Stockholm City Hall is the building of the Municipal Council for the City of Stockholm in Sweden. It stands on the eastern tip of Kungsholmen island next to Riddarfjrdens northern shore and facing the islands of Riddarholmen and Sdermalm.

Grona Lund
Grona Lund or colloquially Gronan is an amusement park in Stockholm Sweden. Located on the seaward side of Djurgarden Island it is relatively small compared to other amusement parks mainly because of its central location which limits expansion. The 3.8-ha amusement park has over 30 attractions and is a popular venue for concerts in the summer. It was founded in 1883 by James Schultheiss. The parks location is unique in the sense that most of the buildings are old residential and commercial structures from the 19th century. The buildings were not built for the park instead the park was built around the buildings. The park has three different entertainment venues Dansbanan Grona Lundsteatern and Stora Scenen.

Swedish History Museum
The Swedish History Museum is a museum located in Stockholm Sweden that covers Swedish archaeology and cultural history from the Mesolithic period to the present day.  Founded in 1866 it operates as a government agency and is tasked with preserving Swedish historical items as well as making knowledge about history available to the public. The origin of the museum is the collections of art and historical objects gathered by Swedish monarchs since the 16th century. It has a number of permanent exhibitions and annually hosts special exhibitions tied to current events.

Liljevalchs
Liljevalchs konsthall is an art gallery located on the Djurgrden island in Stockholm Sweden. Designed by architect Carl Bergsten and inaugurated in March 1916 it is today owned by the City of Stockholm. Behind the entrance on the northwestern corner is a small vestibule. To the right of the latter is a large sculpture hall leading to two large galleries with skylights intended for paintings flanked by a series of smaller exhibition spaces. The eastern end of the building has a large-scale portico facing a small park surrounded by the large windows of a small restaurant. One of the most appreciated exhibition spaces in Sweden Liljevalch is renowned for its well-proportioned spaces in a range of sizes and its restaurant Bla Porten.

Stockholm City Hall
Stockholm City Hall is the seat of Stockholm Municipality in Stockholm Sweden. It stands on the eastern tip of Kungsholmen island next to Riddarfjardens northern shore and facing the islands of Riddarholmen and Sodermalm. It houses offices and conference rooms as well as ceremonial halls.

Maritime Museum
The Maritime Museum in Stockholm Sweden is a museum for naval history merchant shipping and shipbuilding. Located in the Gardet section of the inner-city district Ostermalm the museum offers a panoramic view of the bay Djurgardsbrunnsviken. The building was designed by architect Ragnar Ostberg and built in 1933-36. The museum houses about 900000 photos 50000 objects and 45000 drawings all related to the sea coast ships and boats past and present. A major part of the collection the boats are housed in Boat Hall 2 at Galarvarvet in Stockholm. The boat collection ranges from canoes to Skerry cruisers.

Sergels torg
Sergels torg is a major public square in Stockholm Sweden constructed in the 1960s and named after 18th-century sculptor Johan Tobias Sergel whose workshop was once located north of the square. The construction of the square was completed in 1967. Before the creation of Sergels torg Brunkebergstorg was the most important public space in the area the hub about which traffic revolved and the place where people would go to work and find entertainment.

The Royal Palace Stockholm
Stockholm Palace or the Royal Palace is the official residence and major royal palace of the Swedish monarch. Stockholm Palace is on Stadsholmen in Gamla stan in the capital Stockholm. It neighbors the Riksdag building. The offices of the King the other members of the Swedish royal family and the Royal Court of Sweden are here. The palace is used for representative purposes by the King whilst performing his duties as the head of state.

Nationalmuseum
Nationalmuseum is the national gallery of Sweden located on the peninsula Blasieholmen in central Stockholm. The museums operations stretch far beyond the borders of Blasieholmen the national museum that manages the National Portrait Gallery collection at Gripshom the Gustavsbergporclain museum a handful of castle collections and the Swedish Institute in Paris. In the summer of 2018 Nationalmuseum Jamtli opened in Ostersund as a way to show a part of the collection in the north of Sweden. The museums benefactors include King Gustav III and Carl Gustaf Tessin. The museum was founded in 1792 as Kungliga Museet. The present building was opened in 1866 when it was renamed the Nationalmuseum and used as one of the buildings to hold the 1866 General Industrial Exposition of Stockholm.

Nordiska museet
The Nordic Museum is a museum located on Djurgrden an island in central Stockholm Sweden dedicated to the cultural history and ethnography of Sweden from the early modern period to the contemporary period.

Riddarholmen Church
Riddarholmen Church is the church of the former medieval Greyfriars Monastery in Stockholm Sweden. The church serves as the final resting place of most Swedish monarchs. Riddarholmen Church is located on the island of Riddarholmen close to the Royal Palace in Stockholm Sweden.

Mariaberget
Mariaberget is an informal area located in northwestern Sodermalm in Stockholm. Today the entire area north of Hornsgatan between Torkel Knutssonsgatan and Pustegrand is referred to as Mariaberget. The name comes from the Maria Magdalena congregation. The hill on the northern part of Sodermalm has been inhabited since the 14th century perhaps already when Stockholm was founded in the 13th century. Originally the assembly included the whole of Sodermalm. Katarina congregation was added in the 17th century the Sofia congregation at the beginning of the 20th century and the Hogalid congregation in the mid-1920s. In city plans from the 1880s several black-accessible and undeveloped mountains were reserved as parks and during the name revision in 1885 the quarters Kattfoten and Bossan were named Mariaberget. The part between Pustegrand in the east and Blecktornsgrand in the west is called Mariaberget ostra and is a cultural reserve with a large number of buildings which according to the City Museum in Stockholm have extremely high cultural and historical values.

Ulriksdal Palace
Ulriksdal Palace is a royal palace situated on the banks of the Edsviken in the Royal National City Park in Solna Municipality 6 km north of Stockholm. It was originally called Jakobsdal for its owner Jacob De la Gardie who had it built by architect Hans Jacob Kristler in 1643-1645 as a country retreat.

House of Nobility
The House of Nobility in Stockholm Sweden is a corporation and a building that maintains records and acts as an interest group on behalf of the Swedish nobility. The name is literally translated as House of Knights as the knights belong to the higher ranks of the Swedish nobility sometimes also together with titles such as count and baron. All esquires are also represented in the corporation. This is a tradition from the Middle Ages when Sweden during the Kalmar Union only had one knight Sten Sture. The architecture of the old main library in Turku Finland was influenced by the Swedish House of Nobility.

Icehotel
Icehotel is the worlds first hotel made entirely of ice and snow located in the small village of Jukkasjrvi in Swedish Lapland. Each year the hotel is rebuilt with a new design by various artists worldwide. Guests can stay in ice rooms visit the ice bar and enjoy unique sculptures and art installations all within the icy structure. The hotel also offers a variety of Arctic experiences including dog sledding Northern Lights viewing and snowmobile tours.

Sami Church
The Sami Church also known as Jukkasjarvi Church is one of Swedens oldest wooden churches and a key historical landmark in the village of Jukkasjarvi. Built in the early 17th century the church is known for its distinctive red wooden exterior and richly decorated interior. It features a stunning altar painting by Bror Hjorth depicting elements of Sami culture. The church serves as a symbol of the integration between traditional Smi spirituality and Christian practices.

Tornetrask
Tornetrask is one of Swedens largest and deepest lakes located in the Lapland region near the border with Norway. The lake spans approximately 70 kilometers in length and is renowned for its crystal-clear waters surrounded by stunning mountain scenery. Tornetrsk is a popular destination for fishing hiking and observing the Northern Lights particularly in the winter months when the lake often freezes over. The nearby Abisko National Park offers easy access to the lake and is a key location for outdoor activities and nature experiences.
Denmark
Denmark is a Scandinavian country known for its stunning landscapes, glorious beaches, fairy-tale castles, rich history, dense forest, innovative architecture, tourist attractions, and friendly people. It may be a small country, but it is jam-packed with famous Denmark attractions that draw the attention of many travelers. From Tivoli Gardens to Christiansborg Palace, the National Museum of Denmark, the National Gallery of Denmark, and more, there are countless places to visit in Denmark. Copenhagen is the capital city of Denmark and the most known tourist destination. This capital city offers a wide range of Denmark tourist attractions for travelers. Tivoli Gardens is one such attraction in Copenhagen. It is the world’s oldest amusement park, which is also an inspiration behind the Disney theme parks. You will catch a wide variety of attractions, including puppet theaters, roller coasters, food pavilions, cafes, restaurants, and more. Christiansborg Palace is another one of the famous Denmark tourist spots located in Copenhagen. This palace has become a Parliament home, Prime Minister’s office, and the Supreme Court. Another world-class spot to visit in Denmark is the National Museum. This national museum is 10-minute stroll from Tivoli Gardens. The museum delves into Danish history and culture and displays an incredible collection of Danish artifacts. If you are a history buff, there is an incredible opportunity to unearth Denmark’s cultural heritage through numerous museums and landmarks. One of the best places to visit in Denmark to explore history is the Viking Ship Museum. It is a must-see attraction for someone interested in the history of Vikings. If you are a nature lover, Denmark’s countryside is an ideal place to head. From sweeping hills to uneven coastlines, Denmark’s scenic beauty is unparalleled. Another marvel is the North Sea coastline. It has stunning sandy beaches and spectacular dunes. The Wadden Sea National Park, the UNESCO World Heritage Site, is a famous destination for nature aficionados and birdwatchers. Among the top Denmark tourist places to see, Elsinore is one of the best. This city is located in eastern Denmark and is steeped in history. It is home to many libraries, shipyard museums, and exhibition halls. Rosenborg, the beautiful crown jewel of Denmark, is a 400-year-old castle that still maintains its majestic charm and grandeur. The beauty of this castle is impossible to describe. You can also explore the picturesque island known for its art & craft and fishing- Bornholm. Located in the Baltic Sea, it is an ideal escape for tourists who want to avoid the hustle and bustle of the cities. Besides the things to see and explore, tourists can also make their tummies happy with the best culinary delights. Denmark is famous for its seafood, traditional sandwiches, and pastries. Denmark is a fascinating country that offers everything a traveler need. From places to see to history to explore to food to taste, a traveler will not be left empty-handed. Don’t you think you should plan a quick trip to Denmark and excavate the hidden beauty of this country? If you are excited to visit Denmark, you don’t need to go further. Dook International has the best holiday tour packages. We ensure you have a great time with complete convenience. Our Denmark tour packages include every significant attraction that you should visit. So, wait no more and get in touch with Dook. Some exciting and pocket-friendly offers are waiting for you.
Tivoli Gardens
19th-century amusement park open Apr-Sep with antique roller coaster & live entertainment program.

The Little Mermaid
The Little Mermaid is a bronze statue by Edvard Eriksen depicting a mermaid becoming human. The sculpture is displayed on a rock by the waterside at the Langelinie promenade in Copenhagen Denmark. It is 1.25 meters tall and weighs 175 kilograms. Based on the 1837 fairy tale of the same name by Danish author Hans Christian Andersen the small and unimposing statue is a Copenhagen icon and has been a major tourist attraction since its unveiling in 1913. In recent decades it has become a popular target for defacement by vandals and political activists. The statue was commissioned in 1909 by Carl Jacobsen son of the founder of Carlsberg who had been fascinated by a ballet about the fairytale in Copenhagens Royal Theatre and asked the ballerina Ellen Price to model for the statue. The sculptor Edvard Eriksen created the bronze statue which was unveiled on August 23 1913. The statues head was modeled after Price but as the ballerina did not agree to model in the nude the sculptors wife Eline Eriksen was used for the body.

Nyhavn
Nyhavn is a 17th-century waterfront canal and entertainment district in Copenhagen Denmark

Amalienborg
18th-century rococo complex of palaces with a museum & marchesdisplays by royal guards.

Kronborg
Kronborg is a castle and stronghold in the town of Helsingr Denmark.

Church of Holmen
The Holmen Church is a Parish church in central Copenhagen in Denmark on the street called Holmens Kanal. First built as an anchor forge in 1563 it was converted into a naval church by Christian IV. It is famous for having hosted the wedding between Margrethe II of Denmark the current queen of Denmark and Prince Henrik in 1967. It is the burial site of such notabilities as naval heroes Niels Juel and Peter Tordenskjold and composer Niels Wilhelm Gade and contains artwork by among others Bertel Thorvaldsen and Karel van Mander.

Slotsholmen
Slotsholmen is an island in the harbor of Copenhagen Denmark and part of Copenhagen Inner City. The name is taken from the successive castles and palaces located on the island since Bishop Absalon constructed the citys first castle on the island in 1167 at the site where Christiansborg Palace lies today.

Christiansborg
Christiansborg Palace is a palace and government building on the islet of Slotsholmen in central Copenhagen Denmark. It is the seat of the Danish Parliament the Danish Prime Ministers Office and the Supreme Court of Denmark. Also several parts of the palace are used by the Danish monarch including the Royal Reception Rooms the Palace Chapel and the Royal Stables. The palace today bears witness to three eras of Danish architecture as the result of two serious fires. The first fire occurred in 1794 and the second in 1884. The main part of the current palace finished in 1928 is in the historicist Neo-baroque style. The chapel dates back to 1826 and is in a neoclassical style.

Church of our Saviour
The Church of Our Saviour is a baroque church in Copenhagen Denmark most famous for the external spiral winding staircase that can be climbed to the top offering extensive views over central Copenhagen. It is also noted for its carillon which is the largest in northern Europe and plays melodies every hour from 8 am to midnight. The church is built in a Dutch baroque style and its basic layout is a Greek cross. The walls rest on a granite foundation and are made of red and yellow tiles but in a random pattern unlike what is seen in Christian IVs buildings where they are generally systematically arranged. The facade is segmented by pilasters in the palladian giant order that is they continue in the buildings entire height. The pilasters are of the Tuscan order with bases and capitals in sandstone.

Copenhagen Zoo
Copenhagen Zoo is a zoological garden in Copenhagen Denmark. Founded in 1859 it is one of the oldest zoos in Europe and is a member of EAZA. It comprises 11 hectares and is located in the municipality of Frederiksberg sandwiched between the parks of Frederiksberg Gardens and Sndermarken. With 1571331 visitors in 2019 it is the most visited zoo and one of the most visited attractions in Denmark. The zoo is noted for its new Elephant House designed by British architect Sir Norman Foster. The zoo maintains and promotes a number of European breeding programs. Animals exhibited at the zoo that is not housed in any of the main areas include Bactrian camels American flamingos scarlet ibises roseate spoonbills Dalmatian pelicans turkey vultures Humboldt penguins California sea lions black-capped squirrel monkeys chimpanzees and lions.

Rosenborg Castle
Rosenborg Castle is a renaissance castle located in Copenhagen Denmark. The castle was originally built as a country summerhouse in 1606 and is an example of Christian IVs many architectural projects. It was built in the Dutch Renaissance style typical of Danish buildings during this period and has been expanded several times finally evolving into its present condition by the year 1624. Architects Bertel Lange and Hans van Steenwinckel the Younger are associated with the structural planning of the castle.

Danish Architecture Center
Danish Architecture Center is Denmarks national center for the development and dissemination of knowledge about architecture building and urban development.  DAC was founded in 1985 through a collaboration between the Danish Ministry of Culture the Ministry of Economic and Business Affairs and the Realdania foundation.

Frederiksborg Slot
Frederiksborg Castle is a palatial complex in Hillerd Denmark. It was built as a royal residence for King Christian IV of Denmark-Norway in the early 17th century replacing an older castle acquired by Frederick II and becoming the largest Renaissance residence in Scandinavia. On three islets in the Slotssen it is adjoined by a large formal garden in the Baroque style. In line with Flemish and Dutch Renaissance tradition the quadrangular castle covering the entire area of the northern islet is built of red brick with stepped gables towering spires and light sandstone decorations. The symmetry of the main structure is broken by the large bell tower on the Chapel Wing. All three wings are fundamentally independent buildings that have been joined together to form a complex.

Roskilde Cathedral
Roskilde Cathedral in the city of Roskilde on the island of Zealand in eastern Denmark is a cathedral of the Lutheran Church of Denmark. The cathedral is the most important church in Denmark the official royal burial church of the Danish monarchs and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The cathedral is a major tourist attraction bringing in over 165000 visitors annually. its unique architecture. A working church it also hosts concerts throughout the year.

Medical Museion
Medical Museion is a museum and research unit in Copenhagen Denmark dedicated to the history of health and disease in a cultural perspective. Part of the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences at the University of Copenhagen its principal area of interest is the recent history of the material and iconographic culture of biomedicine. It is based in a listed building from 1787 on Bredgade in Frederiksstaden. The museum is based in a Neoclassical building from 1787 designed by Peter Meyn which used to house Academy of Surgery an institution which was responsible for the education of surgeons in Copenhagen between 1785 and 1842. The central exhibition space is the former auditorium where dissections were carried out as part of the training.

The Royal Library Copenhagen
The Royal Library in Copenhagen is the national library of Denmark and the university library of the University of Copenhagen. It is among the largest libraries in the world and the largest in the Nordic countries. In 2017 it merged with the State and University Library in Aarhus to form a combined national library.

Viking Ship Museum
The Viking Ship Museum in Roskilde is Denmarks national ship museum for ships of the prehistoric and medieval periods. The main focus of the museum is a permanent exhibition of the Skuldelev ships five original Viking ships excavated nearby in 1962. The Viking Ship Museum also conducts research and educates researchers in the fields of maritime history marine archaeology and experimental archaeology. Various academic conferences are held here and there is a research library in association with the museum.

Hirschsprung Collection
The Hirschsprung Collection is an art museum located on Stockholmsgade in Copenhagen Denmark. It is located in a parkland setting in stre Anlg near the Danish National Gallery and houses a large collection of Danish art from the 19th and early 20th centuries. The emphasis is on the Danish Golden Age from 1800 to 1850 but also the Skagen Painters and other representatives of the Modern Breakthrough are well represented. The museum is built around the personal art collection of Heinrich Hirschsprung a tobacco manufacturer and patron of the arts who founded his art collection in 1865. Almost four decades later in 1902 he donated it to the Danish state. It is displayed in a purpose-built Neoclassical museum building designed by Hermann Baage Storck and completed in 1911.

Charlottenborg Palace
Charlottenborg Palace is a large town mansion located on the corner of Kongens Nytorv and Nyhavn in Copenhagen Denmark. Originally built as a residence for Ulrik Frederik Gyldenlve it has served as the base of the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts since its foundation in 1754. Today it also houses Kunsthal Charlottenborg an institution for contemporary art and Danmarks Kunstbibliotek the Royal Art Library. The main wing and two lateral wings were built from 1672 to 1677 probably under the architect Ewert Janssen. In 1783 the mansion was extended with a rear fourth wing designed by Lambert van Haven.

Gefion Fountain
The Gefion Fountain is a large fountain on the harbourfront in Copenhagen Denmark. It features a large-scale group of oxen pulling a plow and being driven by the Norse goddess Gefjon. It is located in the Nordre Toldbod area next to Kastellet and immediately south of Langelinie. The fountain was donated to the city of Copenhagen by the Carlsberg Foundation on the occasion of the brewerys 50-year anniversary. It was originally supposed to be located in the main town square outside the city hall.

City Hall Square Copenhagen
City Hall Square is a public square in the center of Copenhagen Denmark located in front of the Copenhagen City Hall. Its large size central location and affiliation with the city hall make it a popular venue for a variety of events celebrations and demonstrations. It is often used as a central point for measuring distances from Copenhagen. City Hall Square is located at the site of Copenhagens old hay market and the Western City Gate of the Fortifications of Copenhagen. The squares central area is 9800 m. It is often a venue for demonstrations and buskers and several bars and nightclubs are located in the vicinity. Rdhuspladsen also houses one of the citys bus centrals.
Lebanon
Lebanon, a small Mediterranean country, is a captivating destination with an impressive history, rich culture, and natural beauty. Nestled on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea, Lebanon is an exciting tourist destination for travelers who love vibrant culture, ancient history, and breathtaking landscapes. Brimming with stunning Lebanon tourist attractions, this country captivates the heart of many visitors with its charm. Despite its small size, it offers an abundance of experiences that will enchant your wanderlust soul. From its cosmopolitan cities to ancient ruins to awe-inspiring coastlines and beautiful mountain ranges, there is something for every traveler. There are not one or two reasons to visit this gem, but countless. Besides Lebanon tourist places, there is food, nightlife, hikes, fashion, and whatnot to experience. Once you are here, the diverse landscapes of Lebanon will not let you leave. It gives you a chance to make your social profile enchanting through vibrant photographs of this place. The people of Lebanon are so resilient and friendly. They offer hospitality like no other. With the help of the locals, you can explore more of Lebanon tourist spots. So, if you are in Lebanon, don’t hesitate to talk to them. They are welcoming and know how to have a good time. As you know, Lebanon’s nightlife is lively- you will witness never-seen-before party scenes here. Lebanese knows how to party all night- from small gatherings to nightclubs to pubs. With a rich history, there are one of the best historical places to visit in Lebanon. There are many historical treasures to discover in Lebanon. One of the most enchanting places to visit in Lebanon is Beirut. Known as the Paris of the Middle East, Beirut offers a unique blend of new and old. This capital city of Beirut seamlessly combines rich cultural heritage with modernity. Here, you can explore the bustling streets, visit the National Museum, and try out the delicious Lebanese cuisine.  Besides the urban landscape, don’t forget to admire the natural beauty of Lebanon. Lebanon’s coastline extends to 225 kilometers, offering breathtaking views of the Mediterranean Sea. Along the coast, there are sandy beaches that pin as one of the best Lebanon tourist attractions. You can relax by the beach and even indulge in water sports like snorkeling, diving, etc. Not to mention, the mountain range of Lebanon is unbelievable. The magnificent Mount Lebanon and awe-inspiring Qadisha Valley are a treat to nature lovers. These rugged terrains lead to interesting hiking and trekking trails that offer stunning vistas & hidden gems. If you want to surrender to nature, these mountain ranges are one of the best Lebanon tourist places. Moreover, you can enjoy outdoor adventure activities. This country has numerous galleries and museums that stand as great Lebanon attractions for tourists to explore. Lebanon is a hidden treasure that is waiting to be discovered.If you plan to visit this off-beat country, don’t forget to check out Dook’s tour packages. We have exciting Lebanon tour packages that include all the spectacular tourist attractions. These packages are available at pocket-friendly rates. Whether you want to explore ancient ruins, learn about history, admire nature, or indulge in activities, Lebanon will leave you with so many choices. So, why are you waiting? Go pack your bags and leave for the adventure.Sweden
Sweden is an exotic holiday destination in Europe. With its blessed landscapes, far-off cities, unspoiled forests, fairy lakes, and rich heritage, Sweden is every traveler’s heaven. From opulent palaces to medieval towns, vast Arctic landscapes, and the Ice hotel, no destination is better than Sweden. Sweden’s rich history offers a multitude of historical landmarks, museums, and architectural marvels to visit. There is no doubt that Sweden tourist attractions are plentiful. A tourist will get to see and experience a lot of things. The top Sweden attractions include historic towns, natural attractions, vibrant cities, unique culture, and more. Sweden is home to thousands of rivers, forests, and lakes that offers ample opportunities for tourists to indulge in Kayaking, fishing, hiking, and other outdoor adventures. Among the best places to visit in Sweden is its unspoiled countryside. Sweden’s beautiful and charming towns offer raw and exquisite natural beauty. Another major draw for tourists is the majestic and vibrant cities of Sweden. Stockholm, the capital city of Sweden, is popularly known as the Venice of the North. This city put forward stunning architecture, cultural offerings, and rich history for tourists. Travelers can visit the Gamla Stan, Vasa Museum, Skansen & Djurgarden, and more. One of the popular Sweden tourist spots is Liseberg Theme Park. Every year this theme park lures millions of tourists. There is a huge range of attractions- from fairy-tale castles to adrenaline-pumping rides, bumper cars, and four roller coaster rides. Gothenburg, the second-largest city in Sweden, is a captivating city offering a renowned charm. It is home to rusted art galleries, calm & lively night streets, and Michelin-star restaurants across the streets. Besides the many Sweden tourist attractions, there are unique cultural offerings. One of the popular cultural festivals in Sweden is Midsummer, which is celebrated in June every year. At this festival, all the Swedish people gather to dance around, sing traditional songs, and enjoy a delectable feast. One of the must-see Sweden tourist places is Sarek National Park. It is an ideal destination for mountaineers and hikers. This national park is home to over 200 peaks and more than 100 glaciers. The Oresund Bridge is another one of the famous Sweden attractions and the most iconic in Europe. Gammelstad Church Town is another one of the must-visit places to visit in Sweden. The highlight of this place is its red wooden houses covered in white snow. This unique attraction depicts the communal spirit and country’s lifestyle that dominates in the parts of Sweden. Among countless castles and palaces in Sweden, one of the most famous is Drottningholm Palace. Built in the 16th century, the Drottningholm is currently home to the Swedish Royal family. This palace is also Sweden’s most elegant architectural attraction. Sweden is a fantastic tourist destination for someone who loves natural beauty, cultural offerings, vibrant cities, rich history, and commendable attractions. Whether you want to explore outdoor adventures, discover Sweden’s history, or experience the natural beauty, this country offers something for everyone. If you are in the middle of planning your trip to Sweden, you must check out Dook’s tour packages. Our Sweden tour packages have every attraction, from Vasa Museum to City Hall, Djurgarden, Skansen, Drottningholm Palace, and more. Now is your chance to tick off this amazing destination from your bucket list.
Vasa Museum
The Vasa Museum is a maritime museum in Stockholm Sweden. Located on the island of Djurgrden the museum displays the only almost fully intact 17th century ship that has ever been salvaged the 64-gun warship Vasa that sank on her maiden voyage in 1628. The Vasa Museum opened in 1990 and according to the official web site is the most visited museum in Scandinavia. Together with other museums such as the Stockholm Maritime Museum it belongs to the Swedish National Maritime Museums.

Skansen
Skansen is the first open-air museum and zoo in Sweden and is located on the island Djurgrden in Stockholm Sweden. It was opened on 11 October 1891 by Artur Hazelius to show the way of life in the different parts of Sweden before the industrial era. The name Skansen has also been used as a noun to refer to other open-air museums and collections of historic structures particularly in Central and Eastern Europe but also in the United States e.g. Old World Wisconsin and Fairplay Colorado.

ABBA The Museum
ABBA The Museum is a Swedish interactive exhibition about the pop band ABBA that opened in Stockholm Sweden in May 2013. ABBAs collected works are showcased in a contemporary interactive setting at Djurgrden Stockholm.

Djurgrden
Djurgrden or more officially Kungliga Djurgrden is an island in central Stockholm Sweden.

Drottningholm Palace
The Drottningholm Palace is the private residence of the Swedish royal family. Drottningholm is near the capital Stockholm. Built on the island of Lovn it is one of Swedens Royal Palaces. It was originally built in the late 16th century and it served as a regular summer residence of the Swedish royal court for most of the 18th century. Apart from being the private residence of the Swedish royal family the palace is a popular tourist attraction.

City Hall
The Stockholm City Hall is the building of the Municipal Council for the City of Stockholm in Sweden. It stands on the eastern tip of Kungsholmen island next to Riddarfjrdens northern shore and facing the islands of Riddarholmen and Sdermalm.

Grona Lund
Grona Lund or colloquially Gronan is an amusement park in Stockholm Sweden. Located on the seaward side of Djurgarden Island it is relatively small compared to other amusement parks mainly because of its central location which limits expansion. The 3.8-ha amusement park has over 30 attractions and is a popular venue for concerts in the summer. It was founded in 1883 by James Schultheiss. The parks location is unique in the sense that most of the buildings are old residential and commercial structures from the 19th century. The buildings were not built for the park instead the park was built around the buildings. The park has three different entertainment venues Dansbanan Grona Lundsteatern and Stora Scenen.

Swedish History Museum
The Swedish History Museum is a museum located in Stockholm Sweden that covers Swedish archaeology and cultural history from the Mesolithic period to the present day.  Founded in 1866 it operates as a government agency and is tasked with preserving Swedish historical items as well as making knowledge about history available to the public. The origin of the museum is the collections of art and historical objects gathered by Swedish monarchs since the 16th century. It has a number of permanent exhibitions and annually hosts special exhibitions tied to current events.

Liljevalchs
Liljevalchs konsthall is an art gallery located on the Djurgrden island in Stockholm Sweden. Designed by architect Carl Bergsten and inaugurated in March 1916 it is today owned by the City of Stockholm. Behind the entrance on the northwestern corner is a small vestibule. To the right of the latter is a large sculpture hall leading to two large galleries with skylights intended for paintings flanked by a series of smaller exhibition spaces. The eastern end of the building has a large-scale portico facing a small park surrounded by the large windows of a small restaurant. One of the most appreciated exhibition spaces in Sweden Liljevalch is renowned for its well-proportioned spaces in a range of sizes and its restaurant Bla Porten.

Stockholm City Hall
Stockholm City Hall is the seat of Stockholm Municipality in Stockholm Sweden. It stands on the eastern tip of Kungsholmen island next to Riddarfjardens northern shore and facing the islands of Riddarholmen and Sodermalm. It houses offices and conference rooms as well as ceremonial halls.

Maritime Museum
The Maritime Museum in Stockholm Sweden is a museum for naval history merchant shipping and shipbuilding. Located in the Gardet section of the inner-city district Ostermalm the museum offers a panoramic view of the bay Djurgardsbrunnsviken. The building was designed by architect Ragnar Ostberg and built in 1933-36. The museum houses about 900000 photos 50000 objects and 45000 drawings all related to the sea coast ships and boats past and present. A major part of the collection the boats are housed in Boat Hall 2 at Galarvarvet in Stockholm. The boat collection ranges from canoes to Skerry cruisers.

Sergels torg
Sergels torg is a major public square in Stockholm Sweden constructed in the 1960s and named after 18th-century sculptor Johan Tobias Sergel whose workshop was once located north of the square. The construction of the square was completed in 1967. Before the creation of Sergels torg Brunkebergstorg was the most important public space in the area the hub about which traffic revolved and the place where people would go to work and find entertainment.

The Royal Palace Stockholm
Stockholm Palace or the Royal Palace is the official residence and major royal palace of the Swedish monarch. Stockholm Palace is on Stadsholmen in Gamla stan in the capital Stockholm. It neighbors the Riksdag building. The offices of the King the other members of the Swedish royal family and the Royal Court of Sweden are here. The palace is used for representative purposes by the King whilst performing his duties as the head of state.

Nationalmuseum
Nationalmuseum is the national gallery of Sweden located on the peninsula Blasieholmen in central Stockholm. The museums operations stretch far beyond the borders of Blasieholmen the national museum that manages the National Portrait Gallery collection at Gripshom the Gustavsbergporclain museum a handful of castle collections and the Swedish Institute in Paris. In the summer of 2018 Nationalmuseum Jamtli opened in Ostersund as a way to show a part of the collection in the north of Sweden. The museums benefactors include King Gustav III and Carl Gustaf Tessin. The museum was founded in 1792 as Kungliga Museet. The present building was opened in 1866 when it was renamed the Nationalmuseum and used as one of the buildings to hold the 1866 General Industrial Exposition of Stockholm.

Nordiska museet
The Nordic Museum is a museum located on Djurgrden an island in central Stockholm Sweden dedicated to the cultural history and ethnography of Sweden from the early modern period to the contemporary period.

Riddarholmen Church
Riddarholmen Church is the church of the former medieval Greyfriars Monastery in Stockholm Sweden. The church serves as the final resting place of most Swedish monarchs. Riddarholmen Church is located on the island of Riddarholmen close to the Royal Palace in Stockholm Sweden.

Mariaberget
Mariaberget is an informal area located in northwestern Sodermalm in Stockholm. Today the entire area north of Hornsgatan between Torkel Knutssonsgatan and Pustegrand is referred to as Mariaberget. The name comes from the Maria Magdalena congregation. The hill on the northern part of Sodermalm has been inhabited since the 14th century perhaps already when Stockholm was founded in the 13th century. Originally the assembly included the whole of Sodermalm. Katarina congregation was added in the 17th century the Sofia congregation at the beginning of the 20th century and the Hogalid congregation in the mid-1920s. In city plans from the 1880s several black-accessible and undeveloped mountains were reserved as parks and during the name revision in 1885 the quarters Kattfoten and Bossan were named Mariaberget. The part between Pustegrand in the east and Blecktornsgrand in the west is called Mariaberget ostra and is a cultural reserve with a large number of buildings which according to the City Museum in Stockholm have extremely high cultural and historical values.

Ulriksdal Palace
Ulriksdal Palace is a royal palace situated on the banks of the Edsviken in the Royal National City Park in Solna Municipality 6 km north of Stockholm. It was originally called Jakobsdal for its owner Jacob De la Gardie who had it built by architect Hans Jacob Kristler in 1643-1645 as a country retreat.

House of Nobility
The House of Nobility in Stockholm Sweden is a corporation and a building that maintains records and acts as an interest group on behalf of the Swedish nobility. The name is literally translated as House of Knights as the knights belong to the higher ranks of the Swedish nobility sometimes also together with titles such as count and baron. All esquires are also represented in the corporation. This is a tradition from the Middle Ages when Sweden during the Kalmar Union only had one knight Sten Sture. The architecture of the old main library in Turku Finland was influenced by the Swedish House of Nobility.

Icehotel
Icehotel is the worlds first hotel made entirely of ice and snow located in the small village of Jukkasjrvi in Swedish Lapland. Each year the hotel is rebuilt with a new design by various artists worldwide. Guests can stay in ice rooms visit the ice bar and enjoy unique sculptures and art installations all within the icy structure. The hotel also offers a variety of Arctic experiences including dog sledding Northern Lights viewing and snowmobile tours.

Sami Church
The Sami Church also known as Jukkasjarvi Church is one of Swedens oldest wooden churches and a key historical landmark in the village of Jukkasjarvi. Built in the early 17th century the church is known for its distinctive red wooden exterior and richly decorated interior. It features a stunning altar painting by Bror Hjorth depicting elements of Sami culture. The church serves as a symbol of the integration between traditional Smi spirituality and Christian practices.

Tornetrask
Tornetrask is one of Swedens largest and deepest lakes located in the Lapland region near the border with Norway. The lake spans approximately 70 kilometers in length and is renowned for its crystal-clear waters surrounded by stunning mountain scenery. Tornetrsk is a popular destination for fishing hiking and observing the Northern Lights particularly in the winter months when the lake often freezes over. The nearby Abisko National Park offers easy access to the lake and is a key location for outdoor activities and nature experiences.
Oman
Oman, a country in the Middle East, is home to cultural charms, architectural gems, and historical marvels. Although not many people consider this destination when planning a vacation, it has something you won’t forget. Filled with diverse landscapes, Oman tourist attractions, and vibrant culture, Oman is becoming a popular destination for travelers seeking the Arabian experience. Oman’s hidden gems tend to draw tourists' attention. One of the reasons why most travelers visit this country is because of its Kind locals. Besides the famous Oman attractions, the generosity, friendliness, and hospitality of Omanis are what attract visitors to Oman. Oman’s culture and heritage are the next best thing that captivates the heart of tourists. Omani culture is one of the most fascinating cultures in the Arab region. Another reason why travelers choose Oman is its tranquil nature. There are many popular places to visit in Oman for relaxation and calmness. It is also one of the cleanest countries in the world. Food and shopping are the other miscellaneous factors that add to its tourists count. Moreover, if you are delighted by desert landscapes, historic forts, mountain ranges, and warm beaches, make Oman your next travel destination. Muscat, the capital city, is home to many historic wonders. It is one of the stunning places to visit in Oman. Nestled between deserts and mountains, Muscat charms many visitors. From Qasr Al Alam Royal Palace to the twin forts of Al Jalali & Mirani, there are many ancient heritages to explore. Wahiba Sands, also known as Sharqiya Sands, is one of the most fascinating Oman tourist spots. This desert offers an unforgettable experience with its rolling sand and golden hues. During the sunset, the color of the sand turns into a coppery orange shade. You can indulge in many adventurous activities here, which include dune bashing, trekking, overnight camping, and other sand sports. If you are looking for a secluded and quiet experience, Masirah Island is an ideal place. Among the top Oman tourist places, Masirah Island offers numerous watersports, wildlife, turtles, and history. Al Seeb is a coastal city- popularly known for its gardens, architecture, and beaches. It is an idyllic romantic getaway where you can spend quality time with your loved one. At this beautiful destination, you can enjoy sitting by the lake, watching waterfalls, seeing the aquarium, and getting a glimpse of Omani weddings. Musandam Fjords is a majestic wonder that offers a treat to all nature lovers. It is one of the most prominent Oman tourist spots for scuba divers. Its clear water and rich sea life is the main reason why so many scuba divers flock to this destination. All-in-all, Oman is a hidden pearl that must be unearthed from every corner. If you make a plan to visit Oman, get the best tour packages from Dook International. We offer exciting Oman tour packages that include all the tourist attractions mentioned above at budget-friendly prices. You must visit this destination at least once to experience the richness of Oman culture and the hospitality of locals. So, pack your stuff and leave home for a fulfilling adventure.
Oman


Nasser Rashed Lootah Masjid


Bait Al Zubair Museum


Sultan's Palace for occasions

Hungary
Hungary, a landlocked country in Central Europe, is a magnificent destination with quaint villages, picture-postcard scenery, romantic architecture, extraordinary caves, stunning lakes, and more. The glittering capital of Hungary - Budapest - is one of the primary reasons why most tourists fly to this beautiful destination. This central European country elicits a strong sense of history and tradition at every turn. From Hungary tourist attractions to mouthwatering food, tons of natural beauty, local wines, and folk culture, there’s always something new to explore. Hungary’s countryside has one of the most beautiful landscapes that you cannot find anywhere else in Europe. If you are in Hungary, you will never be away from dramatic mountains and lakes, dazzling river scenes, and lush green valleys. All of these offer the best Hungary tourist spots to roam around the country. Besides, you will get opportunities to indulge in adventure sports like hiking, climbing, biking, camping, etc. The best part about Hungary is that you don’t need to choose the right season to visit because the weather is delightful all year round. Apart from visiting famous Hungary tourist places, you can relax and rejuvenate yourself at historic spas. From taking a bath in healing waters to longer stays in spa resorts, it offers a peaceful holiday experience to tourists. With the perfect blend of expansive scenery that transports you to a long-gone era and the best urban cities, Hungary is a top-notch tourist destination. Buda Castle is one of the top Hungary attractions located in the Hungarian capital of Budapest. This castle is preferably known as the “Paris of the East” because of its spectacular beauty. The Danube River is another majestic Hungary tourist attraction. It flows through Hungary from north to south, and passes through Budapest, splitting the city in two. From the freedom bridge, one can witness the best sunset views of the Danube river. It is one of the favorite spots of tourists who are often seen watching the spectacular sunset. If you are visiting Budapest, you cannot return without casting a view on the magnificent Hungarian Parliament building. It is one of the top Hungary tourist spots. There is no reason that you won’t be awestruck by its luxurious architecture and proportions when viewed from Castle hill on the bank of the Danube river. One of the superb places to visit in Hungary is the world-class Hungarian Open Air Museum. Established over 50 years ago, the open-air museum has become one of the significant Hungary attractions. Lake Balaton is Europe’s largest freshwater lake which is so big that sometimes it is referred to as the “Hungarian Sea”. To get the best views over Budapest, you must go to the Fisherman’s Bastion. It is a popular spot to get some Instagram-worthy photos from here. If you want to take the memory of your vacation home, you can go shopping in Great Market Hall. There you can find ideal presents for your family and friends. Overall, Hungary is a good place to spend a quiet vacation. Planning a trip to Hungary? You need to look at Dook’s tour packages. We offer a fulfilling vacation in Hungary at affordable prices. We have covered almost every prominent attraction in Hungary to give you a feel of everything. So, what are you waiting for? Grab the best tour package and start vacationing in Hungary.
Hungarian Parliament Building


House of Terror


Hungarian State Opera


Budapest Castle Hill Funicular


Parliament Building


St. Stephens Basilica

Macau
Macau, also famously known as the “Las Vegas of Asia”, is a glamorous blend of Chinese and Portuguese cultures. Macau is a most sought-after tourist destination that offers countless tourist attractions for travelers of all ages and interests. From ancient heritage sites to the picture-perfect skyline, casinos, and Disneyland, you can explore a wide variety of awe-inspiring places to visit in Macau. One of the main take out for tourists in Macau is its world-class casinos. Macau is home to some of the world’s best and largest casinos, which includes MGM Macau, Wynn Macau, and Venetian Macau. These casinos offer countless games, such as blackjack, roulette, slot machines, and baccarat. Even if you don’t play these games, you can visit these casinos to experience the magnificent architecture and splendid interiors. These are one of the top Macau tourist attractions. If you are a history enthusiast, you will not go empty-handed. Macau has plenty of remarkable attractions to offer. To learn about Macau’s rich history, you must visit the city’s Historic Centre. It is one of the must-visit Macau attractions, which is also listed in the UNESCO World Heritage Site. Senado Square is a lovely pedestrian area where you can stroll through the square. Also, tourists can shop and dine here from several outlets. The Island of Taipa is one of the top Macau tourist places to visit, where you spend quality time with yourself. It has several Chinese shops, Portuguese colonial buildings, and a famous horse-racing track. Macau is a place where you can enjoy your holiday to the fullest. Home to world-class shows and performances, Macau offers a full swing to your vacation with acrobatics, diving, and other popular activities. There are several theme parks and amusement centers, such as Macau Tower. It offers experiences like bungee jumping and sky walking. If you go further, there is Macau Museum that gives you an insight into the history. It is one of the most visited Macau tourist spots. You can visit this place with your family and explore the history and culture of Macau. To indulge in some fun activities, you should head to Wynn Palace. It is one of the best places to visit in Macau. You can ride a skycab and see the dancing fountain in its full grandeur. Macau never fails to delight its tourists with entertainment and fun. City of Dreams is one such delightful place to relish a good time. It is a sparkling entertainment zone and is very famous among tourists. Therefore, it is one of the most-loved Macau tourist places. Another beautiful tourist destination in Macau is Coloane Island. This graceful island is home to many cultural and historical attractions. You can even take a memory of your trip home in the form of a souvenir which you can shop here at affordable prices. Among the best Macau tourist spots, Nam Van Lake tops the list. It is the most stunning tourist attraction in Macau and is the largest man-made fountain in Asia. Macau has charmed you enough to plan a vacation. Before going anywhere else, check out what Dook International has in its bucket. We offer the best Macau holiday packages at pocket-friendly rates. Our holiday packages are well-crafted according to all your travel needs. To unravel the mysteries and realities of Macau, you should try our tour packages. No matter what you pick, you will get to experience the best.Bangladesh
Bangladesh, a country in South Asia, is a secret gem waiting to be discovered. Filled with ancient ruins, cultural heritage, vast landscapes, medieval temples, and natural beauty, Bangladesh offers a unique holiday experience. There are many off-the-beaten Bangladesh tourist attractions that you will love exploring. From swarming cities to the serene countryside, Bangladesh boasts incredible experiences. Bangladesh offers a unique blend of cultures that are influenced by Islamic traditions, ancient civilizations, and British colonial history. Dhaka, the capital city of Bangladesh, is the melting pot of architectural marvels. Some of the major Bangladesh attractions include the National Parliament House, the Lalbagh Fort, and Ahsan Manzil. There are a few UNESCO World Heritage Sites, like the historic Mosque City of Bagerhat and the ancient ruins of Paharpur. Besides, Bangladesh has an abundance of natural beauty. The Sundarbans, the UNESCO World Heritage Site, is one of the most popular places to visit in Bangladesh. It is a must-visit site for every wildlife lover. You can get a chance to spot Bengal Tigers, Bird Species, Deer, crocodiles, and many other animals. As you will go further, there is Cox’s Bazaar. It is known for its sparkling Beaches that offer a calm and peaceful escape. You can even indulge in many different water activities. The hilly sites of Bandarban and Rangamati are also spectacular Bangladesh tourist places that offer incredible landscapes, tranquil lakes, and tribal villages. These lush-green hilly regions are best for hiking, trekking, and boat rides.Bangladesh, also known as the land of rivers, has extensive river streams, including the famous Ganga and Brahmaputra. You must take boat trips along the picturesque rivers to explore the mesmerizing riverine landscapes. These boat rides offer a unique experience that allows you to witness floating markets, lush greenery, and rural life. The other Bangladesh tourist attractions are its Wildlife and Bird Sanctuaries. It is a heaven for nature lovers and birdwatchers. The country has many wildlife sanctuaries and national parks that are a treat to visit for nature enthusiasts. One such Bangladesh tourist spot is Lawachara National Park. It is popular for its unique and vast flora and fauna. On the other hand, the wetlands of Tanguar Haor are home to waterbirds that you can watch and take photos of. Apart from natural wonders and attractions, Bangladesh’s festivals and events are no less than attractions. If you visit Bangladesh, immerse yourself in its vibrant festivals and delicious cuisines. These colorful celebrations of festivals draw the attention of many tourists and indulge them in mouthwatering food. Also, you will find Bangladesh people extremely warm and welcoming. They are always eager to communicate with new people and assist you through anything. Overall, Bangladesh is an exquisite tourist destination that you must visit.Bangladesh offers countless authentic experiences for intrepid travelers. If you plan to visit Bangladesh, check out Dook’s holiday packages. Every Bangladesh tour package can get customized as per your travel needs. Our travel packages include every Bangladesh attractions that you should visit. So, pack your stuff and embark on a beautiful journey to this incredible country.
Shilaidaha Rabindra Kuthibari


Daulatdia


Dhakeshwari National Temple


Ramna Kali Temple


Chandranath Temple, Bangladesh

New Zealand
New Zealand is one of the most desirable destinations in the world. Unlike other destinations, New Zealand satiates every traveler with aerial mountains, classic glaciers, plentiful wine, and rolling hills. Undoubtedly, New Zealand is the hottest travel destination in the world. There’s nothing that this beautiful country cannot offer. From breathtaking scenery to friendly people, copious amounts of things to do, delectable food & wine, and an unmatchable vibe, it is filled with plenty of adventures. New Zealand tourist attractions are also abundant in number. Your eyes will get tired of capturing so much wonder around. Among the thousands of reasons to visit New Zealand, some are the unrealistic landscapes, handsome travel destinations, world-famous vineyards, safe to travel, and much more. Besides, there are countless places to visit in New Zealand. The list is very long, and you will barely manage to cover all of it. You will need more than one visit to embrace everything in this beautiful country. If you are a thrill-seeker, you must try New Zealand’s exhilarating adventures. From Bungee Jumping to Skydiving, Heli-Skiing, River Rafting, and caving, you will be awe-struck in wonder. Whether you are a trekker, long-drive lover, foodie, or cultural buff, there’s something for everyone in New Zealand. There are too many New Zealand tourist spots for every kind of traveler, whether you are traveling solo or with a group. From eco-lodges to the world’s most luxurious stays and quaint bed-and-breakfast inns, a traveler can experience diversity. Nature-crafted New Zealand is a real heaven on earth. Bay of Islands is one of the most enticing New Zealand attractions. It is a three-hour drive from Auckland. Over 144 islands are there, making it a haven for sailing and yachting. You can spot dolphins, whales, marlins, and Penguins here. Tourists can kayak along the coast, hike the island trails, bask in coves, and explore subtropical forests. Queenstown is one of the top New Zealand tourist places to visit. Settle between the shores of sparkling Lake Wakatipu and the remarkable snowy peaks, Queenstown is New Zealand’s adventurous capital. Some adrenaline-fueled things to do here are Jet Boating, Bungee Jumping, White Water Rafting, Rock Climbing, Paragliding, Downhill Skiing, and Mountain Biking. Among the Top New Zealand tourist attractions, Franz Josef and Fox glaciers are spectacular locations. These ice rivers flow from some of the highest peaks in the Southern Alps, where the kind of coastal climate makes it easy for travelers to access them on foot. Auckland, the city of sails, is one of the famous New Zealand tourist places among visitors. It is the country’s largest and most populous Polynesian city on the planet. It is an ideal place for day trips and wilderness adventures. With Black-sand beaches, rainforest hiking trails, and quaint islands, coves, & volcanoes, it is a perfect location to relish the best of New Zealand. Not just this, there are many other places to visit in New Zealand, such as Coromandel Peninsula, Tongariro National Park, Rotorua, Fiordland National Park, and more. You can spend a lovely time and make your trip more memorable with Dook International. Dook has some exciting New Zealand tour packages. To explore the variety of New Zealand attractions, connect with Dook. We have added the most desirable attractions in our tour packages, which range from Huka Falls, Waitomo Caves, Polynesian Spa, Mount Tongariro, and more. Now, don’t wait and pack your bags to head to New Zealand for a fulfilling experience.
Wai-O-Tapu Thermal Wonderland
Waiotapu also spelt Wai-O-Tapu is an active geothermal area at the southern end of the Okataina Volcanic Centre just north of the Reporoa caldera in New Zealands Taupo Volcanic Zone. It is 27 kilometres south of Rotorua

Waitomo Caves


Rotorua


Aoraki / Mount Cook


Westland Tai Poutini National Park


Routeburn Track
The Routeburn Track is a world-renowned 32 km tramping track found in the South Island of New Zealand.

Coronet Peak Base
Coronet Peak is a commercial skifield in Queenstown New Zealand located seven kilometres west of Arrowtown on the southern slopes of the 1649-metre peak which shares its name.

Sky Tower
The Sky Tower is a telecommunications and observation tower in Auckland New Zealand. Located at the corner of Victoria and Federal Streets within the citys CBD it is 328 metres (1076 ft) tall as measured from ground level to the top of the mast[4] making it the tallest freestanding structure in the Southern Hemisphere[5] and the 27th tallest tower in the world.

Auckland War Memorial Museum
The Auckland War Memorial Museum Tmaki Paenga Hira is one of New Zealands most important museums and war memorials. Its collections concentrate on New Zealand history natural history and military history

Auckland Domain
he Auckland Domain is a large park in Auckland New Zealand. It is the oldest park in the city and at 75 hectares is one of the largest. Located in the central suburb of Grafton the park contains all of the exgardeplosion crater and most of the surrounding tuff ring of the Pukekawa volcano

Huka Falls
The Huka Falls are a set of waterfalls on the Waikato River that drains Lake Taupo in New Zealand. A few hundred metres upstream from the Huka Falls the Waikato River narrows from approximately 100 metres across into a canyon only 15 metres across

Polynesian Spa
Polynesian Spa is a developed geothermal spa facility in Rotorua North Island New Zealand. Local Mori acclaimed the therapeutic benefits of the water and bathed for centuries in the acidic pool Te Pupunitanga now called Priests Bath

Mount Tongariro
Mount Tongariro is a compound volcano in the Taupo Volcanic Zone of the North Island of New Zealand. It is located 20 kilometres to the southwest of Lake Taupo and is the northernmost of the three active volcanoes that dominate the landscape of the central North

Te Puia
The New Zealand Mori Arts and Crafts Institute opened in 1963 in Rotorua New Zealand due to the impending threat of the loss of traditional Mori arts

Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa
The Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa is New Zealands national museum located in Wellington. Known as Te Papa or Our Place it opened in 1998 after the merging of the National Museum and the National Art Gallery. More than 1.5 million people visit every year.

International Antarctic Centre

Mexico
Mexico is a budding tourist destination, welcoming visitors from all over the world. Blessed with endless sunshine, marvellous scenery, stunning Mexico tourist attractions, and soft sandy beaches, Mexico is a breathtaking escapade. Not to mention, Mexico’s astonishingly rich cultural heritage is one of the main sites to behold. From natural wonders to culinary delights, Mexico satiates the heart of every traveller. With countless Mexico attractions, travellers experience the best of this country. Be its breathtaking beaches, marine life, artwork, and history & culture, you name it, and Mexico will present you with it. Cosmopolitan cities, the Caribbean coastline, flourishing restaurants, and quirky colonial towns are everything that makes your holiday pleasurable. The biggest reason people visit this country is its culinary traditions, which are- varied and delicious. There’s so much to linger on besides tacos and tortas. Apart from famous Mexico tourist spots, you will find people hoarding and grooving on the loud music rhythms. The traditional music scenes in Mexico are common thing. Also, the locals of Mexico are extremely friendly and welcoming. They are always eager to help and guide you through the city. No matter what kind of holiday you are seeking, Mexico has everything in its bucket. From a variety of wildlife to deserts to turquoise seas to lush jungles, Mexico has something for every visitor. Mexico has some epic landscapes that uniquely present the marvellous sites of the country. Monarch Butterfly Biosphere Reserve is one of the most loved places to visit in Mexico. It is nature’s great spectacles that you can witness on Earth. Every year, Monarch Butterflies take a long journey of at least 3000 miles from eastern Canada to the forests of western central Mexico. Copper Canyon is one of the most visited Mexico tourist attractions. This canyon is one of the largest and deepest canyons in the world. The best way to explore the Copper Canyon is through the “Chihuahua al Pacifico” Railway. If you are a beach lover, Tulum is an ideal spot. You will find the best beaches in this geography. It is one of the best beach destinations in Mexico. From crystal-green water to picturesque landscapes, Tulum offers quaint moments here. The island of Cozumel is one of the stunning places to visit in Mexico that offers a perfect Mexican getaway. Most travellers are drawn here for its endless sunshine. The exotic beaches on this island are Playa San Juan, Playa Santa Rosa, and Playa San Francisco. Some of the other prominent Mexico tourist places are Guanajuato, Cathedral Metropolitana, Cenote Dos Ojos, Santa Prisca Church in Taxco, and Isla Mujeres.Mexico is a year-round destination where every kind of traveller can relish the best time of their life. Once you are here, you won’t want to leave this dynamic land. Filled with endless attractions and natural scenery, Mexico awaits your arrival. If you seek to spend a few days in Mexico, try Dook’s Mexico tour packages. You will never regret taking our assistance in planning your vacation. We are here to help you with everything. So, book your flight to Mexico with us for the never-ending thrill.
Puerto Vallarta


Tlaquepaque


San Miguel de Allende


Bosque de Chapultepec Segunda Seccin
Chapultepec more commonly called the Bosque de Chapultepec in Mexico City is one of the largest city parks in the Western Hemisphere measuring in total just over 686 hectares. Centered on a rock formation called Chapultepec Hill one of the parks main functions is an ecological space in Greater Mexico City. It is considered the first and most important of Mexico Citys lungs with trees that replenish oxygen to the Valley of Mexico. The park area has been inhabited and considered a landmark since the Pre-Columbian era when it became a retreat for Aztec rulers. In the colonial period Chapultepec Castle was built here eventually becoming the official residence of Mexican heads of state.

Museo Nacional de Antropologa
Mexico Museum of Anthropology is an educational institution

Palacio De Bellas Artes
The Palacio de Bellas Artes is a prominent cultural center in Mexico City. It has hosted some of the most notable events in music dance theatre opera and literature and has held important exhibitions of painting sculpture and photography. Consequently the Palacio de Bellas Artes has been called the Cathedral of Art in Mexico. The building is located on the western side of the historic center of Mexico City next to the Alameda Central park. The first National Theater of Mexico was built in the late 19th century but it was soon decided to tear this down in favor of a more opulent building in time for Centennial of the Mexican War of Independence in 1910.

Museo Soumaya Plaza Carso
The Museo Soumaya is a private museum in Mexico City and a non-profit cultural institution with two museum buildings in Mexico City - Plaza Carso and Plaza Loreto. It has over 66000 works from 30 centuries of art including sculptures from Pre-Hispanic Mesoamerica 19th- and 20th-century Mexican art and an extensive repertoire of works by European old masters

Zona Arqueolgica Palenque
Palenque also anciently known as Lakamha was a Maya city state in southern Mexico that flourished in the 7th century. The Palenque ruins date from ca. 226 BC to ca. 799 AD. After its decline it was overgrown by the jungle of cedar mahogany and sapodilla trees but has since been excavated and restored. It is located near the Usumacinta River in the Mexican state of Chiapas about 130 km south of Ciudad del Carmen 150 meters above sea level. It averages a humid 26 C with roughly 2160 millimeters of rain a year. Palenque is a medium-sized site smaller than Tikal Chichen Itza or Copn but it contains some of the finest architecture sculpture roof comb and bas-relief carvings that the Mayas produced. Much of the history of Palenque has been reconstructed from reading the hieroglyphic inscriptions on the many monuments historians now have a long sequence of the ruling dynasty of Palenque in the 5th century and extensive knowledge of the city-states rivalry with other states such as Calakmul and Tonin.

Balneario Xel Ha
Xel-Ha Park is a commercial aquatic theme park and ecotourism development located on the Caribbean coast of the state of Quintana Roo Mexico in the municipality of Solidaridad.

Templo del Oratorio de San Felipe Neri


Alebrijes day club


Musa Underwater Museum
The Cancn Underwater Museum is a non-profit organization based in Cancn Mexico devoted to the art of conservation. The museum has a total of 500 sculptures most by the British sculptor Jason deCaires Taylor and the others by five Mexican sculptors with three different galleries submerged between three and six meters deep in the ocean at the Cancn National Marine Park.

Isla Contoy
sla Contoy is a small island in the Mexican state of Quintana Roo approximately 30 kilometers north of Isla Mujeres. The island is only 8.5 km in length and has an area of 3.17 square kilometres. Since 1961 Isla Contoy is protected by the Mexican government and was declared a national park in February 1998.

Ro Secreto Mxico
Ro Secreto is a semi-flooded limestone cave system near Playa del Carmen Quintana Roo Mexico. There are 38 kilometers of caves in the system of which approximately 10% are used for ecotourism. Currently Ro Secreto is protected as a nature reserve.

El Castillo


Temple of Warriors


Cozumel Cantina


Yucatan


Aguas Calientes


Mexico City Metropolitan Cathedral


La Quebrada
La Quebrada is one of the most famous tourist attractions in Acapulco Mexico. Divers entertain tourists by jumping off either of two ledges on the cliff one that is 40 feet high and the top one which is 80 feet high. The divers must calculate the right moment to jump to catch an incoming wave and avoid serious injury or death. Occasionally jumpers dive with a torch.

Colegio Mesoamericano
The Pyramid of the Magician is a Mesoamerican step pyramid located in the ancient Pre-Columbian city of Uxmal Mexico. The structure is also referred to as the Pyramid of the Dwarf Casa el Adivino and the Pyramid of the Soothsayer. The pyramid is the tallest and most recognizable structure in Uxmal.

Pyramids of Teotihuacan


Frida Kahlo Museum

Isle of Man

Grove Museum

Colombia
Colombia is a budding holiday destination for so many travelers around the world. Located in South America, Colombia has been becoming the choice of every tourist. With contrasting landscapes, idyllic Caribbean isles, delightful colonial towns, forest-clad mountains, lush green coffee plantations, and bustling nightlife- you can spend months exploring every corner of Colombia. Many Colombia tourist attractions are there that draw most travelers' attention. Colombia is a marvelous place, from snow-capped Andean mountains to tropical Amazon jungles, turquoise Caribbean beaches, and sun-kissed deserts. One of the main Colombia attractions for tourists is its natural beauty. From its picturesque scenery to dense rainforests, impressive beaches, soaring mountains, and expansive deserts, this place is a treat for the nature lover. To satiate your nature’s quest, you can head to the Amazon rainforest for adventure. Travelers can also hike through the Cocora Valley, home to the world’s highest palm trees, or swim in the pristine river of Tayrona National Park. This country is also popularly known for its rich cultural heritage. With a fascinating history and influences from African slaves, Spanish colonizers, and indigenous tribes, Colombia has always been a center for history buffs. Cartagena and Medellin are some of the best places to visit in Colombia to explore history. Cartagena is one of the untouched colonial destinations. Take a quick stroll around the historic walled city, and you will feel like you have stepped into the prehistoric era. The other Colombian city- Medellin - is a vibrant metropolis known for its street art, museums, and galleries. Some must-see Colombia attractions in Medellin are Botero Plaza, Museum of Antioquia, Rafael Uribe Palace of Culture, etc. One of the most exciting aspects of Colombian culture is its dance and music. Colombia is known as the birthplace of a famous dance style called salsa. You can immerse yourself in the rhythm and energy of this dance form by visiting one of the most popular salsa clubs in cities like Bogota and Cali. These are some of the top Colombia tourist places where most travelers enjoy a good time. On the other side, Colombia is also famous for its coffee production. It is the world’s third-largest coffee producer. The major coffee plantation takes place in the Andean hills. The Eje Cafetero region is open for travelers for tastings, tours, and farm stays. Tayrona National Park is one of the best Colombia tourist spots where you will find the finest beaches. Most of these beaches are set against the picturesque mountains of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, which makes a perfect beach vacation for tourists. If you are an adventurous traveler who wants to indulge in an exhilarating experience, you must go for whitewater rafting in San Gil. There is another aspect that makes Colombia more attractive to tourists is its warm and friendly locals. Tourists receive warm and welcoming hospitality on their arrival to this blissful country. Whether you try local cuisines, learn salsa, or chat with locals over a cup of coffee, you will be sure to have an unforgettable experience. If you want to visit this wholesome country, don’t forget to pick up Colombia tour packages from Dook. We have comprehensive tour packages featuring everything you may want to experience on your vacation. Dook International thrives to create traveler-friendly tour packages at affordable prices. Whether it's unique historic sights, national parks, natural attractions, or bustling cities, there are plenty of options for a tourist. So, don’t waste time and book your Colombia package.
Parque Nacional Natural Tayrona


Gold Museum


Monserrate

Australia
Australia is every traveler’s dream destination, boasting countless tourist attractions. It is the most remote, highly developed, and fascinating country worldwide. Whether you want to explore beaches & islands, nature & national parks, wildlife, food & drink, adventure & sports, Australia offers it all. No matter with whom you are traveling, you will be sated. It delivers unique experiences to every traveler irrespective of age, budget, interest, or taste. From the best honeymoon locations to unique destinations, relaxing holiday spots, road trips, cool neighborhoods, and natural places, there’s so much to unearth in Australia. There’s a reason why most tourists choose Australia for a joyful vacation. And it is because of its utterly beautiful natural wonders. From Great Barrier Reef to the sacred Uluru, Australia has unending delightful sites worth visiting and enjoying. Australia’s vibrant art and mesmerizing laid-back atmosphere is another reason why tourist loves visiting. Besides the Australia attractions, it also offers adventure opportunities to adventurers. Whether you pick to discover the country’s backwood wilderness, surf along the incredible coastlines, snorkel, or simply sail, Australia proposes the best adventure. One of the best places to visit in Australia is its shimmering cities. To experience the urban delights of Australia, you must visit the metropolitan areas. From Sydney’s vibrant culture and pulsating ambiance to Melbourne’s pleasing European flair, there are plenty of things you can do, see, and experience in Australia. Australian weather is one of the points of attraction for so many tourists worldwide. It has a golden-sunny climate throughout the year. Australia, the land of astonishing contrasts and striking beauty, has many tourist places. The list starts with the Sydney Opera House. This Opera House graces the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites and is one of the famous architectural icons of the world. If you are in Australia, you shouldn’t miss seeing the Great Barrier Reef. It is one of the popular Australia tourist spots and a bucket-list destination for snorkelers, nature lovers, and island buffs. This place is so vast that one can see it from outer space. Uluru, another natural wonder, is one of the most photographed Australia tourist attractions. This striking monolith of Uluru-Kata Tjuta National Park is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Besides the Opera house, the Sydney Harbour Bridge is one of the Australia attractions. One of the top things you can do here is to capture the spectacular views over the harbor and city. Great Ocean Road is one of the best Australia tourist places, having dramatic scenic vistas. There are various things to see, such as Port Campbell National Park, an impressive rainforest, hiking trails, and delightful waterfalls. Kangaroo Island is another surprising place to visit in Australia. On this otherworldly island, Kangaroos can be seen jumping along the powdery shores, and Koalas cling to the eucalyptus trees. Besides natural Australia tourist spots, one unique place is the Heide Museum of Modern Art. This entire museum consists of a contemporary art gallery, heritage park, and historical art museum. The location of this museum is one of the reasons why tourists visit. It is set upon an enormous lush farmland.Australia is a very diverse country where you can find everything from vast desert lands to lush green forests. If you plan a holiday to Australia, you must look at Dook Australia tour packages. There, you will get countless attractions put together in a tour package for a budget-friendly price. We have crafted these travel packages in view of your travel taste and picks. Hurry! Fly to Australia and explore every corner of it.
Peninsula Hot Springs
Peninsula Hot Springs is the first natural hot springs and day spa centre in Victoria just 90 minutes from Melbourne. Natural thermal mineral waters flow into the pools and private baths at this award-winning coastal oasis providing the idyllic setting for relaxation and rejuvenation. Two bathing facilities provide an experience for everyone Bath House Experience over 20 globally-inspir

Green Field


Scots Church Melbourne
The Scots Church is a Presbyterian church in Melbourne Victoria Australia. It was the first Presbyterian church to be built in the Port Phillip District and is located on Collins Street. It is a congregation of the Presbyterian Church of Australia and has been described as an icon for well over a hundred years.

Deep Sea Divers Den


Sydney Harbour
Port Jackson consisting of the waters of Sydney Harbour Middle Harbour North Harbour and the Lane Cove and Parramatta Rivers is the ria or natural harbour of Sydney New South Wales Australia. The harbour is an inlet of the Tasman Sea. It is the location of the Sydney Opera House and Sydney Harbour Bridge. The location of the first European settlement and colony on the Aus

Sydney Opera House
The Sydney Opera House is a multi-venue performing arts centre at Sydney Harbour in Sydney New South Wales Australia. It is one of the 20th centurys most famous and distinctive buildings. Designed by Danish architect Jrn Utzon but completed by an Australian architectural team headed up by Peter Hall the building was formally opened on 20 October 1973 after a gestation beginni

Sea Life Sydney Aquarium
SEA LIFE Sydney Aquarium is a public aquarium that features a large variety of Australian aquatic life displaying more than 700 species comprising more than 13000 individual fish and other sea and water creatures from most of Australias water habitats. Opened in 1988 it is regarded as one of Sydneys premier tourist attractions with over 55% of its visitors each year coming fr

Sky High Indoor Trampoline Park


Wild Life Sydney
Wild Life Sydney Zoo is a wildlife park in the Darling Harbour precinct on the western edge of the Sydney central business district Sydney New South Wales Australia. Opened in September 2006 the zoo is located adjacent to a leisure and retail precinct that includes the SEA LIFE Sydney Aquarium and Madame Tussauds Sydney.

Mrs Macquaries Chair
Mrs Macquaries Chair is an exposed sandstone rock cut into the shape of a bench on a peninsula in Sydney Harbour. It was hand carved by convicts in 1810 for Elizabeth Macquarie the wife of Major-General Lachlan Macquarie Governor of New South Wales. The peninsula itself was known to the Gadigal as Yurong Point and is now widely known as Mrs Macquaries Point and is pa

Kincumba Mountain Reserve


Mildura Visitor Information Centre


Sea World
Sea World is a marine mammal park oceanarium and theme park located on the Gold Coast Queensland Australia. It includes rides animal exhibits and other attractions and it promotes conservation through education and the rescue and rehabilitation of sick injured or orphaned wildlife. The park is commercially linked to Warner Bros. Movie World and WetnWild Gold Coast as part of th

Queensland Gallery of Modern Art
The Gallery of Modern Art is an art museum located in the South Bank precinct of Brisbane Queensland Australia. The gallery is part of the Queensland Cultural Centre. GOMA opened on 2 December 2006. It is the Queensland Art Gallerys second building and is the largest gallery of modern and contemporary art in Australia. It complements the Queensland Art Gallery building situated onl

Mount Wellington
Mount Wellington officially kunanyikunni incorporating its Palawa kani name is a mountain in the southeast coastal region of Tasmania Australia. It is the summit of the Wellington Range and is within the Wellington Park reserve. Located at the foothills of the mountain is much of Tasmanias capital city Hobart.

Museum of Old and New Art
The Museum of Old and New Art is an art museum located within the Moorilla winery on the Berriedale peninsula in Hobart Tasmania Australia. It is the largest privately funded museum in the Southern Hemisphere. MONA houses ancient modern and contemporary art from the David Walsh collection. Noted for its central themes of sex and death the museum has been described b

Salamanca Market
Salamanca Market is a street market in Salamanca Place Hobart Tasmania Australia. The Salamanca Market is Tasmanias most visited tourist attractions and has won many awards for excellence. Located in historic Salamanca Place next to the Hobart waterfront the market has over 300 stallholders and operates every Saturday between 8.30 am to 3.00 pm.

Royal Tasmanian Botanical Gardens
The Royal Tasmanian Botanical Gardens which cover an area of approximately 14 hectares in Hobart located within the Queens Domain.

Bonorong Wildlife Sanctuary


Tasmanian Museum and Art Gallery
The Tasmanian Museum and Art Gallery is a museum located in Hobart Tasmmport requests
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup
import os
import json

base_url = "https://www.dookinternational.com/countries"
response = requests.get(base_url)
soup = BeautifulSoup(response.text, "lxml")




folder = "scraped_city_data"
os.makedirs(folder,exist_ok=True)


text = ""

def get_data(base_url):
    text = ""
    response = requests.get(base_url)
    soup = BeautifulSoup(response.text, "lxml")

    text += soup.find('div',{"class":"col-12 mb-3"}).text.strip()

    content = soup.find_all('div',{"class":"brick"})

    for c in content:
        text += '\n' + c.find('h3').text.strip() + '\n'
        text += c.find('p').text.strip() + '\n'

    return text

content = soup.find_all("div",{"class":"col-md-4 col-lg-4 col-sm-6 col-xs-12"})
if content:
    for location in content:
        if location:
            text += location.find('h6').text + '\n'
            
            url = location.find('a',{"class":"package-slider-attraction"})
            if(url):
                text += get_data(url['href'])


for i in range(2,16):
    try:
        base_url = f"https://www.dookinternational.com/countries/?page={i}"
        response = requests.get(base_url)
        obj= json.loads(response.text)
        soup = BeautifulSoup(obj['view'], "lxml")
        content = soup.find_all("div",{"class":"col-md-4 col-lg-4 col-sm-6 col-xs-12"})
        if content:
            for location in content:
                if location:
                    text += location.find('h6').text + '\n'
                    
                    url = location.find('a',{"class":"package-slider-attraction"})
                    if(url):
                        text += get_data(url['href'])
    except:
        print("something went wrong")



file_path = os.path.join(folder,"120_countries_data.txt")
with open(file_path,'w',encoding="utf-8") as f:
    f.write(text)
Launceston City Park
Launceston City Park is a park in Launceston Tasmania Australia. Established in the 1820s by the Launceston Horticultural Society and handed over to the Launceston City Council in 1863. It is now an important part of cultural life in Launceston and also a heritage park.

Hollybank Treetops Adventure


Queen Victoria Museum and Art Gallery
The Queen Victoria Museum and Art Gallery is a museum located in Launceston Tasmania Australia. The QVMAG is the largest museum in Australia not located in a capital city.

The Tamar Valley


Tasmania Zoo
Tasmania Zoo is a zoo located in Launceston in the Australian state of Tasmania. Situated on 900 acres of old growth native bushland it is home to the states largest collection of native and exotic animals.

Royal Botanic Gardens
Royal Botanic Gardens Victoria are botanic gardens across two sites - Melbourne and Cranbourne. Melbourne Gardens was founded in 1846 when land was reserved on the south side of the Yarra River for a new botanic garden. It extends across 38 hectares that slope to the river with trees garden beds lakes and lawns. It displays almost 50000 individual plants representing 8500 di

Flinders Street Station


Queen Victoria Market
The Queen Victoria Market is a major landmark in Melbourne Victoria Australia and at around seven hectares is the largest open air market in the Southern Hemisphere.

Eureka Tower
Eureka Tower is a 297.3 m skyscraper located in the Southbank precinct of Melbourne Victoria Australia. Construction began in August 2002 and the exterior was completed on 1 June 2006. The plaza was finished in June 2006 and the building was officially opened on 11 October 2006. The project was designed by Melbourne architectural firm Fender Katsalidis Architects and

Melbourne Zoo
Melbourne Zoo is a zoo in Melbourne Australia. It is located within Royal Park in Parkville approximately 4 kilometres north of the centre of Melbourne. It is the primary zoo serving Melbourne. The zoo contains more than 320 animal species from Australia and around the world and is accessible via Royal Park station on the Upfield railway line and is also accessible via tram routes 58 and 19 a

Sydney Observatory
The Sydney Observatory is a heritage-listed meteorological station astronomical observatory function venue science museum and education facility located on Observatory Hill at Upper Fort Street in the inner city Sydney suburb of Millers Point in the City of Sydney local government area of New South Wales Australia. It was designed by William Weaver and Alexander Dawson and built from 1

Madame Tussauds Sydney
Madame Tussauds Sydney is a wax museum located in Darling Harbour in Sydney Australia and is situated on the Aquarium Wharf. Madame Tussauds is part of Merlin Entertainments which owns and operates attractions globally.

Sydney Harbour Bridge
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is an Australian heritage-listed steel through arch bridge across Sydney Harbour that carries rail vehicular bicycle and pedestrian traffic between the Sydney central business district and the North Shore. The view of the bridge the harbour and the nearby Sydney Opera House is widely regarded as an iconic image of Sydney and of Australia itself. The bridge i

Sydney Tower
Sydney Tower is Sydneys tallest structure and the second tallest observation tower in the Southern Hemisphere. The name Sydney Tower has become common in daily usage however the tower has been known as the Sydney Tower Eye AMP Tower Flower Tower Glower Tower Westfield Centrepoint Tower Big Poke Centrepoint Tower or just Centrepoint.

Adelaide Botanic Garden
The Adelaide Botanic Garden is a 51-hectare public garden at the north-east corner of the Adelaide city centre in the Adelaide Park Lands. It encompasses a fenced garden on North Terrace and behind it the Botanic Park. Work was begun on the site in 1855 with its official opening to the public on 4 October 1857.

Adelaide Zoo
Adelaide Zoo is Australias second oldest zoo and it is operated on a non-profit basis. It is located in the parklands just north of the city centre of Adelaide South Australia. It is administered by the Royal Zoological Society of South Australia Incorporated which is a full institutional member of the Zoo and Aquarium Association and the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums.

Adelaide Oval
Adelaide Oval is a sports ground in Adelaide South Australia located in the parklands between the city centre and North Adelaide. The venue is predominantly used for cricket and Australian rules football but has also played host to rugby league rugby union soccer tennis among other sports as well as regularly being used to hold concerts. Austadiums.com described Adelaid

Royal Botanic Garden
The Royal Botanic Garden Sydney is a heritage-listed major 30-hectare botanical garden event venue and public recreation area located at Farm Cove on the eastern fringe of the Sydney central business district in the City of Sydney local government area of New South Wales Australia.

Museum of Contemporary Art Australia
The Museum of Contemporary Art Australia located in George Street Sydney is an Australian museum solely dedicated to exhibiting interpreting and collecting contemporary art both from across Australia and around the world. It is housed in the art deco-style former Maritime Services Board Building on the western edge of Circular Quay.

National Gallery of Victoria
The National Gallery of Victoria popularly known as the NGV is an art museum in Melbourne Victoria Australia. Founded in 1861 it is Australias oldest largest and most visited art museum. The NGV houses an encyclopedic art collection across two sites NGV International located on St Kilda Road in the Melbourne Arts Precinct of Southbank and the Ian Potter Centre NGV Australia locate

Kings Park And Botanic Garden


Swan River Park


Elizabeth Quay
Elizabeth Quay is a mixed-use development project in the Perth central business district. Located on the north shore of Perth Water and centred on the landmark Swan Bells it was named in honour of Queen Elizabeth II during her Diamond Jubilee.

Australian War Memorial
The Australian War Memorial is Australias national memorial to the members of its armed forces and supporting organisations who have died or participated in wars involving the Commonwealth of Australia and some conflicts involving personnel from the Australian colonies prior to Federation. The memorial includes an extensive national military museum. The Australian War Memo

Goulburn Regional Art Gallery
Goulburn Regional Art Gallery is the regions hub for contemporary art and creative practices. The Gallery presents ambitious and...

Perth Zoo
Perth Zoo is a 41-acre zoological park in South Perth Western Australia. The zoo first opened in 1898 and by 2011 housed 1258 animals of 164 species and an extensive botanical collection. It is a full institutional member of the Zoo and Aquarium Association and the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums.
Vatican City
Vatican City, the smallest country in the world, is filled with architecture, history, and art. Spanning over 0.44 square kilometers, Vatican City is a beautiful European holiday destination. Bordered by Rome, this magnificent country has so many Vatican City tourist attractions that visitors enjoy exploring. Besides boasting stunning art and spectacular architecture, Vatican City has a rich history and many historical attractions. This unmatched tourist destination is attracting millions of tourists every year. There are not one or two but many reasons to visit Vatican City. One among them is St. Peter’s Basilica. It is one of the most stunning Vatican City attractions that leave visitors in awe of its beauty. This Renaissance-style church is the world’s largest church by interior measures. It is by far one of the must-see sights in the Vatican City. Built between the 16th and 18th centuries, this church still holds important significance in this country. Another marvel in the list of top Vatican City tourist spots is Sistine Chapel. The walls and ceilings of the chapel are adorned with vibrant frescoes by Michelangelo and other renowned artists. This place has been the residence of the Pope and is also being used for the election of a new Pope. Not to mention, the Vatican museums are one of the reasons why you must visit this country at least once. These renowned museums are one of the best places to visit in Vatican City. Boasting an extensive collection of art and historical treasures, these museums captivate your attention. How can someone forget to visit the Vatican Gardens? The grandeur look and spectacular art sceneries draw everyone’s attention. Vatican Gardens are one of the most peaceful Vatican City tourist places to spend quiet time. Created by Pope Nicholas II in the 13th century, the vast green landscaped and grassy spaces charm every visitor. Another breathtaking attraction in Vatican City is Vatican Library. It is among the most awe-inspiring Vatican City tourist attractions. Vatican Library is the world’s richest library with 7000 incunabula, 25000 medieval hand-written, and 80000 manuscripts. Vatican Necropolis is another gem in the list of popular places to visit in Vatican City. Located below St. Peter’s Basilica, this archeological marvel is a treasure trove of Vatican City. This country may be small, but it has so much to explore and experience. Vatican City is an ideal tourist destination that stands as a testament to artistic brilliance, spiritual devotion, and human achievement. If you want to plan a trip to Vatican City, Dook has exciting offers for you. We have enticing Vatican City tour packages that have all the tourist attractions you can visit. You can even customize the holiday package as per your travel need. And the cherry on the cake is their affordable and budget-friendly price. So, pack your stuff and fly to this blissful country.Macau
Macau, also famously known as the “Las Vegas of Asia”, is a glamorous blend of Chinese and Portuguese cultures. Macau is a most sought-after tourist destination that offers countless tourist attractions for travelers of all ages and interests. From ancient heritage sites to the picture-perfect skyline, casinos, and Disneyland, you can explore a wide variety of awe-inspiring places to visit in Macau. One of the main take out for tourists in Macau is its world-class casinos. Macau is home to some of the world’s best and largest casinos, which includes MGM Macau, Wynn Macau, and Venetian Macau. These casinos offer countless games, such as blackjack, roulette, slot machines, and baccarat. Even if you don’t play these games, you can visit these casinos to experience the magnificent architecture and splendid interiors. These are one of the top Macau tourist attractions. If you are a history enthusiast, you will not go empty-handed. Macau has plenty of remarkable attractions to offer. To learn about Macau’s rich history, you must visit the city’s Historic Centre. It is one of the must-visit Macau attractions, which is also listed in the UNESCO World Heritage Site. Senado Square is a lovely pedestrian area where you can stroll through the square. Also, tourists can shop and dine here from several outlets. The Island of Taipa is one of the top Macau tourist places to visit, where you spend quality time with yourself. It has several Chinese shops, Portuguese colonial buildings, and a famous horse-racing track. Macau is a place where you can enjoy your holiday to the fullest. Home to world-class shows and performances, Macau offers a full swing to your vacation with acrobatics, diving, and other popular activities. There are several theme parks and amusement centers, such as Macau Tower. It offers experiences like bungee jumping and sky walking. If you go further, there is Macau Museum that gives you an insight into the history. It is one of the most visited Macau tourist spots. You can visit this place with your family and explore the history and culture of Macau. To indulge in some fun activities, you should head to Wynn Palace. It is one of the best places to visit in Macau. You can ride a skycab and see the dancing fountain in its full grandeur. Macau never fails to delight its tourists with entertainment and fun. City of Dreams is one such delightful place to relish a good time. It is a sparkling entertainment zone and is very famous among tourists. Therefore, it is one of the most-loved Macau tourist places. Another beautiful tourist destination in Macau is Coloane Island. This graceful island is home to many cultural and historical attractions. You can even take a memory of your trip home in the form of a souvenir which you can shop here at affordable prices. Among the best Macau tourist spots, Nam Van Lake tops the list. It is the most stunning tourist attraction in Macau and is the largest man-made fountain in Asia. Macau has charmed you enough to plan a vacation. Before going anywhere else, check out what Dook International has in its bucket. We offer the best Macau holiday packages at pocket-friendly rates. Our holiday packages are well-crafted according to all your travel needs. To unravel the mysteries and realities of Macau, you should try our tour packages. No matter what you pick, you will get to experience the best.Bangladesh
Bangladesh, a country in South Asia, is a secret gem waiting to be discovered. Filled with ancient ruins, cultural heritage, vast landscapes, medieval temples, and natural beauty, Bangladesh offers a unique holiday experience. There are many off-the-beaten Bangladesh tourist attractions that you will love exploring. From swarming cities to the serene countryside, Bangladesh boasts incredible experiences. Bangladesh offers a unique blend of cultures that are influenced by Islamic traditions, ancient civilizations, and British colonial history. Dhaka, the capital city of Bangladesh, is the melting pot of architectural marvels. Some of the major Bangladesh attractions include the National Parliament House, the Lalbagh Fort, and Ahsan Manzil. There are a few UNESCO World Heritage Sites, like the historic Mosque City of Bagerhat and the ancient ruins of Paharpur. Besides, Bangladesh has an abundance of natural beauty. The Sundarbans, the UNESCO World Heritage Site, is one of the most popular places to visit in Bangladesh. It is a must-visit site for every wildlife lover. You can get a chance to spot Bengal Tigers, Bird Species, Deer, crocodiles, and many other animals. As you will go further, there is Cox’s Bazaar. It is known for its sparkling Beaches that offer a calm and peaceful escape. You can even indulge in many different water activities. The hilly sites of Bandarban and Rangamati are also spectacular Bangladesh tourist places that offer incredible landscapes, tranquil lakes, and tribal villages. These lush-green hilly regions are best for hiking, trekking, and boat rides.Bangladesh, also known as the land of rivers, has extensive river streams, including the famous Ganga and Brahmaputra. You must take boat trips along the picturesque rivers to explore the mesmerizing riverine landscapes. These boat rides offer a unique experience that allows you to witness floating markets, lush greenery, and rural life. The other Bangladesh tourist attractions are its Wildlife and Bird Sanctuaries. It is a heaven for nature lovers and birdwatchers. The country has many wildlife sanctuaries and national parks that are a treat to visit for nature enthusiasts. One such Bangladesh tourist spot is Lawachara National Park. It is popular for its unique and vast flora and fauna. On the other hand, the wetlands of Tanguar Haor are home to waterbirds that you can watch and take photos of. Apart from natural wonders and attractions, Bangladesh’s festivals and events are no less than attractions. If you visit Bangladesh, immerse yourself in its vibrant festivals and delicious cuisines. These colorful celebrations of festivals draw the attention of many tourists and indulge them in mouthwatering food. Also, you will find Bangladesh people extremely warm and welcoming. They are always eager to communicate with new people and assist you through anything. Overall, Bangladesh is an exquisite tourist destination that you must visit.Bangladesh offers countless authentic experiences for intrepid travelers. If you plan to visit Bangladesh, check out Dook’s holiday packages. Every Bangladesh tour package can get customized as per your travel needs. Our travel packages include every Bangladesh attractions that you should visit. So, pack your stuff and embark on a beautiful journey to this incredible country.
Shilaidaha Rabindra Kuthibari


Daulatdia


Dhakeshwari National Temple


Ramna Kali Temple


Chandranath Temple, Bangladesh

Oman
Oman, a country in the Middle East, is home to cultural charms, architectural gems, and historical marvels. Although not many people consider this destination when planning a vacation, it has something you won’t forget. Filled with diverse landscapes, Oman tourist attractions, and vibrant culture, Oman is becoming a popular destination for travelers seeking the Arabian experience. Oman’s hidden gems tend to draw tourists' attention. One of the reasons why most travelers visit this country is because of its Kind locals. Besides the famous Oman attractions, the generosity, friendliness, and hospitality of Omanis are what attract visitors to Oman. Oman’s culture and heritage are the next best thing that captivates the heart of tourists. Omani culture is one of the most fascinating cultures in the Arab region. Another reason why travelers choose Oman is its tranquil nature. There are many popular places to visit in Oman for relaxation and calmness. It is also one of the cleanest countries in the world. Food and shopping are the other miscellaneous factors that add to its tourists count. Moreover, if you are delighted by desert landscapes, historic forts, mountain ranges, and warm beaches, make Oman your next travel destination. Muscat, the capital city, is home to many historic wonders. It is one of the stunning places to visit in Oman. Nestled between deserts and mountains, Muscat charms many visitors. From Qasr Al Alam Royal Palace to the twin forts of Al Jalali & Mirani, there are many ancient heritages to explore. Wahiba Sands, also known as Sharqiya Sands, is one of the most fascinating Oman tourist spots. This desert offers an unforgettable experience with its rolling sand and golden hues. During the sunset, the color of the sand turns into a coppery orange shade. You can indulge in many adventurous activities here, which include dune bashing, trekking, overnight camping, and other sand sports. If you are looking for a secluded and quiet experience, Masirah Island is an ideal place. Among the top Oman tourist places, Masirah Island offers numerous watersports, wildlife, turtles, and history. Al Seeb is a coastal city- popularly known for its gardens, architecture, and beaches. It is an idyllic romantic getaway where you can spend quality time with your loved one. At this beautiful destination, you can enjoy sitting by the lake, watching waterfalls, seeing the aquarium, and getting a glimpse of Omani weddings. Musandam Fjords is a majestic wonder that offers a treat to all nature lovers. It is one of the most prominent Oman tourist spots for scuba divers. Its clear water and rich sea life is the main reason why so many scuba divers flock to this destination. All-in-all, Oman is a hidden pearl that must be unearthed from every corner. If you make a plan to visit Oman, get the best tour packages from Dook International. We offer exciting Oman tour packages that include all the tourist attractions mentioned above at budget-friendly prices. You must visit this destination at least once to experience the richness of Oman culture and the hospitality of locals. So, pack your stuff and leave home for a fulfilling adventure.
Oman


Nasser Rashed Lootah Masjid


Bait Al Zubair Museum


Sultan's Palace for occasions

Lebanon
Lebanon, a small Mediterranean country, is a captivating destination with an impressive history, rich culture, and natural beauty. Nestled on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea, Lebanon is an exciting tourist destination for travelers who love vibrant culture, ancient history, and breathtaking landscapes. Brimming with stunning Lebanon tourist attractions, this country captivates the heart of many visitors with its charm. Despite its small size, it offers an abundance of experiences that will enchant your wanderlust soul. From its cosmopolitan cities to ancient ruins to awe-inspiring coastlines and beautiful mountain ranges, there is something for every traveler. There are not one or two reasons to visit this gem, but countless. Besides Lebanon tourist places, there is food, nightlife, hikes, fashion, and whatnot to experience. Once you are here, the diverse landscapes of Lebanon will not let you leave. It gives you a chance to make your social profile enchanting through vibrant photographs of this place. The people of Lebanon are so resilient and friendly. They offer hospitality like no other. With the help of the locals, you can explore more of Lebanon tourist spots. So, if you are in Lebanon, don’t hesitate to talk to them. They are welcoming and know how to have a good time. As you know, Lebanon’s nightlife is lively- you will witness never-seen-before party scenes here. Lebanese knows how to party all night- from small gatherings to nightclubs to pubs. With a rich history, there are one of the best historical places to visit in Lebanon. There are many historical treasures to discover in Lebanon. One of the most enchanting places to visit in Lebanon is Beirut. Known as the Paris of the Middle East, Beirut offers a unique blend of new and old. This capital city of Beirut seamlessly combines rich cultural heritage with modernity. Here, you can explore the bustling streets, visit the National Museum, and try out the delicious Lebanese cuisine.  Besides the urban landscape, don’t forget to admire the natural beauty of Lebanon. Lebanon’s coastline extends to 225 kilometers, offering breathtaking views of the Mediterranean Sea. Along the coast, there are sandy beaches that pin as one of the best Lebanon tourist attractions. You can relax by the beach and even indulge in water sports like snorkeling, diving, etc. Not to mention, the mountain range of Lebanon is unbelievable. The magnificent Mount Lebanon and awe-inspiring Qadisha Valley are a treat to nature lovers. These rugged terrains lead to interesting hiking and trekking trails that offer stunning vistas & hidden gems. If you want to surrender to nature, these mountain ranges are one of the best Lebanon tourist places. Moreover, you can enjoy outdoor adventure activities. This country has numerous galleries and museums that stand as great Lebanon attractions for tourists to explore. Lebanon is a hidden treasure that is waiting to be discovered.If you plan to visit this off-beat country, don’t forget to check out Dook’s tour packages. We have exciting Lebanon tour packages that include all the spectacular tourist attractions. These packages are available at pocket-friendly rates. Whether you want to explore ancient ruins, learn about history, admire nature, or indulge in activities, Lebanon will leave you with so many choices. So, why are you waiting? Go pack your bags and leave for the adventure.Paraguay
Paraguay, a landlocked country between Brazil, Argentina, and Bolivia, is a novel destination for a heart filing vacation. This charming country has a bounty of places to visit in its lap. Swanking an unusual blend of cultures, these unusual places to visit in Paraguay will amaze you. Tucked away in the heart of South America, Paraguay boasts untamed natural beauty, a fascinating colonial story, and pleasant summers. From shopping havens to culinary delights, there’s much more to unwind in Paraguay. Packed with picturesque national parks, elusive creatures, the country’s history, traditional markets, delicious food, hiking trails, and whatnot, Paraguay tourist attractions are endless in number. Paraguay also offers many opportunities to make your adventurous soul happy with outdoor activities and heart happy with vibrant festivals. Moreover, history buffs can explore unmissable ancient past stories. There are Paraguay tourist spots that are worth visiting in every way possible. It may be the least visited country in South America, but it has something that you shouldn’t miss out on exploring. From history to friendly people, everything about Paraguay is unmatchable. Paraguay will satiate every inch of your soul with joy, no matter what kind of vacation you are expecting in this country. Among the top places to visit in Paraguay, Asuncion leads the list. Despite being the oldest city in South America, it still holds its charm. The stunning location and welcoming culture of this place leave everyone awe-struck. Saltos Del Monday is a place of elegance. This place captivates the attention of every tourist, adorned with picturesque landscapes of waterfalls. It is one of the Paraguay tourist attractions that you can capture on your phone. Palacio de Lopez is one of the best Paraguay attractions that is a site to behold. This attraction looks extravagant at night when it lits up. Moving further, you can also explore Cerro Cora National Park. If you are someone who loves ecotourism, this national park is a perfect place for you. The lush green national park is one of its kind Paraguay tourist spot. If you want to explore this tranquil destination, you should book a travel package to Paraguay and experience a mindful holiday. For tour packages, you don’t have to go anywhere. Dook International is here to help you. We have some alluring Paraguay tour packages that are budget-friendly. So, don’t wait and grab your best deal. Paraguay is waiting for you to unearth its hidden treasures.Namibia
Namibia, a Southwest African country, is filled with natural wonders, fascinating wildlife, historic sites, breathtaking landscapes, mighty dunes, and much more. It is one of the most tourist-friendly countries in Africa that offers impeccable hospitality. Home to gorgeous Namibia tourist attractions, Namibia is an incredible place to visit. Namibia’s natural attractions range from the oldest deserts to sandy coastlines to rocky mountain peaks. Known for its abundance of wildlife, you will be surprised to see the sheer number of elephants, giraffes, lions, and rhinos that can be seen roaming through national parks. The captivating wildlife is one of Namibia attractions that draws the attention of many visitors. Prepare to explore the remarkable things and indulge in delightful things to do in Namibia that may take your breath away. Namibia’s otherworldly landscapes are one-of-a-kind things to experience. It consists of dramatic views of the wildlife, sweeping dunes, and unspoiled nature. Being a remote country, you will find less crowd, which gives you a chance to experience only the best things. The local culture of Namibia is also one of the most enchanting things to experience. Namibia people still respect their culture and live a traditional lifestyle. Ghost towns are one of the renowned places to visit in Namibia. These spooky towns offer unearthly vibes that may wake your sleeping wanderlust soul. If you love lone escapes, Namibia is a perfect destination. There are many remote escapes that you can explore.  Etosha National Park is one of the best Namibia tourist attractions. No vacation in Namibia is complete without taking a safari through Etosha National Park. On this safari, you will get a chance to experience the world’s most famous animals closely, like lions, elephants, giraffes, and antelopes. Fish River Canyon is another one of the breathtaking places to visit in Namibia that boasts beautiful landscapes. It is one of the largest canyons in the whole of Africa that stretches as far as the eye can see. Sossusvlei is one of the must-see Namibia tourist spots that is home to the world’s largest sand dunes. Do you know Kolmanskop Ghost Town is among the top Namibia tourist places to visit? Yes, you read that right. It used to be a place of German inhabitants, but now with no one living there- it has been converted into a ghost town. As you walk through this ghost town, you will see decaying walls, empty buildings, peeling paint, and caved roofs. Epupa Falls is another marvel in the list of Namibia tourist spots. The biggest waterfall in Namibia- it has jaw-dropping landscapes of nature. Overall, there are a lot of things to witness in Namibia that are untouched and unspoiled.If you are contemplating your visit to Namibia, don’t do it. Namibia is a beautiful holiday destination for every traveler. If you make up your mind for the Namibia vacation, don’t forget to check out Dook’s holiday packages. We have interesting offers on Namibia tour packages that you can avail of and customize your travel experience. So, pack your bags and be ready to explore the unexplored.
Otjiwarongo


Etosha National Park


Anderson Gate Etosha National Park (Southern Entrance)


Brandberg Mountain


Namib Desert

Israel

Basilica of the Annunciation


Cana Church


Haifa


Rosh HaNikra


Megiddo


Mount Scopus


Armageddon Sound Inc.


The Israel Museum, Jerusalem


Rachel's Tomb


Yad Vashem


Masada National Park


Qumran National Park


Tel Aviv Museum of Art


Eretz Israel Museum

Palestinian Territory
Iran

Saint Catherine's Monastery


Moses Well

Indonesia
One Southeast Asian country that is reasonably well-painted on Mother Nature’s canvas is Indonesia. This wonderful corner of the world is a potpourri of rich diversity, culture, a generous serving of scenic landscapes and incomparable cuisines. All this and more, make Indonesia a massive natural playground of incredible attractions waiting to be explored and also the most popular tourist hotspot in the region. Explore the deep jungles of Borneo, dive down under to see the uncharted marine biosphere of Rajah Ampat, hike up to the active volcanoes, bike through the rice fields or visit Tanah Lot Temple in Bali, see the sunrise in Gili Lawa or do bulk shopping at the Ubud market - this vast melange of Indonesia Attractions calls for an ultimate escape for those looking out for an ideal vacation! Wondering what more to see in Indonesia? Ermm...Why not everything that sparks further curiosity? Read ahead and pick your favourites!  While many people travel to Indonesia to explore more in Bali which is a known hot favourite in the itineraries, there are also a wealth of other top places to visit in Indonesia that are abundantly gifted with modern elegance and cultural ethos. Jakarta is one of them! Unlike its popular neighbour Bali that has more sophisticated vibes, Jakarta attracts those who seek uniqueness and liveliness in everything. For the party animals, Jakarta comes as a great surprise as there are plenty of sleek bar lounges and the Bohemian cafés located here which gives an additional pump to the city’s nightlife. Then there are these amazing places to visit in Jakarta that make you fall in instant love with the city. From the lavish streets of Glodok to the relics of Kota, from Jakarta's Old Town to the mesmerising Thousand Islands, you will be ensnared by these irresistible Jakarta Attractions that are too good to miss. If you have more time to spend in the city, do visit the Istiqlal Mosque, which is the largest in Southeast Asia, go to the Merdeka Square in the evening and stroll along the Old Harbour at night.  Want an in-depth look at the top highlights of this country? Here, take a look at some of the most famous and off-beat Indonesia Tourist Attractions that will help make your trip planning quite easier.
Uluwatu Temple
Uluwatu Temple is a Balinese Hindu sea temple located in Uluwatu. The temple is regarded as one of the sad kahyangan and is dedicated to Sang Hyang Widhi Wasa in his manifestation as Rudra

Goa Gajah


Celuk


Batur Lake


Tirta Empul Temple


Tegenungan Waterfall


Taman Ayun Temple
Pura Taman Ayun is a compound of Balinese temple and garden with water features located in Mengwi subdistrict in Badung Regency Bali Indonesia. Henk Schulte Nordholt wrote in his book Negara Mengwi that Taman Ayun was renovated in 1750. The architects name is given as Hobin Ho. The temple garden was featured on the television program Around the World in 80 Gardens. On 2012 the Subak cultural landscape of Bali including Pura Taman Ayun was inscribed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.

Ulun Danu Beratan Temple
Pura Ulun Danu Beratan or Pura Bratan is a major Hindu Shaivite temple in Bali Indonesia. The temple complex is on the shores of Lake Bratan in the mountains near Bedugul. The water from the lake serves the entire region in the outflow area downstream there are many smaller water temples that are specific to each irrigation association.

Tanah Lot


Penataran Lempuyang


Maitreya Temple


Penyengat Island


Broken Beach
Broken beach is a large cave that has lost its roof over time. Watch from above as the water come in with the tide it has a small beach but this cannot be accessed by land. A great place to take photos and giant mantas can sometimes been seen swimming in the sea below. Angel billabong is about 200 metres away it is a natural infinity pool.

FD Kintamani volcano
Kintamani is a highland area in the north of East Bali. Kintamani Batur and Penelokan villages sit on the rim of the huge Batur caldera about 1500m above sea level and offer dramatic views of the active volcano Mount Batur and serene Lake Batur.

Penida Island
Nusa Penida is an island southeast of Indonesias island Bali and a district of Klungkung Regency that includes the neighbouring small island of Nusa Lembongan and twelve even smaller islands. The Badung Strait separates the island and Bali. The interior of Nusa Penida is hilly with a maximum altitude of 524 metres. It is drier than the nearby island of Bali. It is one of the major tourist attractions among the three Nusa islands and is rich in natural beauty.

Melasti Beach
Melasti beach is located in Ungasan Bali. It is one of the cleanest white sandy beaches in Bali and the perfect place to come and relax and soak up some Bali sun. People come here to do prewedding photos watch the Balinese traditional Kecak dance and enjoy the beach clubs.

Art Market Kumbasari
Kumbasari Market is an art market in Bali Indonesia mostly for handicrafts souvenirs and clothes.

Borobudur Temple


Merapi Volcano Museum


Museum Sonobudoyo Unit I


MALIOBORO JOGJAKARTA


Pasar Beringharjo


Buckingham Palace


Kuta beach
Kuta is a tourist area administratively an urban village and the capital of Kuta District Badung Regency southern Bali Indonesia. A former fishing village it was one of the first towns on Bali to see substantial tourist development and as a beach resort remains one of Indonesias major tourist destinations. It is known internationally for its long sandy beach varied accommodation many restaurants and bars and many renowned surfers who visit from Australia. It is located near Balis Ngurah Rai Airport. The beach has been notable since the early 1970s. Kuta beach is also known as Sunset Beach as opposed to Sunrise Beach another name for Sanur Beach. Luxury resorts restaurants and clubs are located along the beach.

Tegallalang Rice Terraces
Tegallalang is a district in the Gianyar Regency Bali Indonesia. As of the 2010 census the area was 61.80 km2 and the population was 50625 the latest official estimate is 53760. Located around 10 km north of Ubud its terraced rice fields are a tourist attraction in the area.

Mount Batur Sunrise Trekking Starting Point
Hiking up the Mount Batur volcano is one of the top trekking options on the island of Bali. Mount Batur is located in the far north east of Bali around 40km from Ubud and a 1 hour 30 mins drive by car. Mount Batur will astound you with its breathtaking views. This is the best outdoors activities you must try while travel to Bali.

Lake Batur
Lake Batur is a volcanic crater lake in Kintamani Bali Bangli Regency of Bali located about 30 km northeast of Ubud in Bali. The lake is inside of the caldera of an active volcano Mount Batur located along the Ring of Fire of volcanic activity.

Mount Agung
Mount Agung is an active volcano in Bali Indonesia southeast of Mount Batur volcano also in Bali. It is the highest point on Bali and dominates the surrounding area influencing the climate especially rainfall patterns. From a distance the mountain appears to be perfectly conical.

Pura Ulun Danu Batur
Pura Ulun Danu Batur is a Hindu Balinese temple located in the island of Bali Indonesia. As one of the Pura Kahyangan Jagat Pura Ulun Danu Batur is one of the most important temples in Bali which acted as the maintainer of harmony and stability of the entire island. Pura Ulun Danu Batur represents the direction of North and is dedicated to the god Vishnu and the local goddess Dewi Danu goddess of Lake Batur the largest lake in Bali. Following the destruction of the original temple compound the temple was relocated and rebuilt in 1926. The temple along with 3 other sites in Bali form the Cultural Landscape of Bali Province which was inscribed as World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 2012.

Tanah Lot Temple
Tanah Lot is a rock formation off the Indonesian island of Bali. It is home to the ancient Hindu pilgrimage temple Pura Tanah Lot a popular tourist and cultural icon for photography. Tanah Lot means Land Sea in the Balinese language. Located in Tabanan about 20 kilometers North West of Denpasar the temple sits on a large offshore rock that has been shaped continuously over the years by the ocean tide. Tanah Lot is claimed to be the work of the 16th-century Dang Hyang Nirartha. During his travels along the south coast he saw the rock islands beautiful setting and decided to rest there. Some fishermen saw him and bought him gifts. Nirartha then spent the night on the little island. Later he spoke to the fishermen and told them to build a shrine on the rock for he felt it to be a holy place to worship the Balinese sea gods. The main deity of the temple is Dewa Baruna or Bhatara Segara who is the sea god or sea power and these days Nirartha is also worshipped here.

Samasta Lifestyle Village
Samasta was developed in a Lifestyle Village concept. This concept represents the influence of Balis traditional and tropical atmosphere filled with the selected tenants to fulfill nowadays lifestyle. Samasta will also be the home of the first Mvenpick Resort & Spa in Indonesia a 5-star hotel from Switzerland and retail spaces with selected specialists. Samasta Lifestyle Village is destined to be the hub of Jimbaran.

Tana Toraja Galeri


Angel Billabong
Angel Billabong Beach is located close to Broken Beach Nusa Penida Island and Bali. It is a unique rock Lagoon created by nature. This is one of those destinations always packed with tourists but the views here are simply incredible.

Kelingking Beach
Secluded white sandy beach with turquoise waters enclosed by a steep cliff & headland.

Crystal Bay Nusa Penida
A stunning white sand beach. Perfect clear waters and excellent snorkeling. Lovely white sand beach and a great place for a picnic. A truly idyllic spot. This place seems to be one of the more touristic spots on the island. This just means that there are a couple of little shops and some tables and chairs next to the beach. Great to relax with a cold drink.
Greece
Greece needs no introduction. This European country has charmed travelers with its mesmerizing beauty, historical sights, archeological sites, sparkling beaches, delightful culture, and more. There’s everything with utter perfection. Greece’s awe-inspiring landscapes will leave you spellbound. Its delicacies will delight your foodie soul, and its locals will captivate you with their stories. Once you start exploring Greece tourist attractions, it will give you a feel of a fairytale straight out of heaven. Be it Athens, Santorini, Crete, Nafplio, or Rhodes, Greece is home to some beautiful gems. From its hospitable people to mouthwatering food to Greek wine to remarkable history to gorgeous beaches to Mediterranean climate and budget-friendly Greece attractions, all these reasons are enough to visit this beautiful place. As you take the first step into this otherworldly destination, you will feel like you are in Paradise. It is a stunning amalgamation of splendid landscapes, historic ruins, dazzling coastlines, and delightful delicacies. Every part of Greece has a story to be told, places to visit, and treats to enjoy. You will be surprised to know that a major part of Greece tourist spots is its 18 UNESCO Heritage-listed sites. Whether you are a history lover or not, you will enjoy exploring the Acropolis, Parthenon, Open-air Museum of Dolos, etc. Do you know? Greece is known for its natural islands and coastlines that offer expanding views of mesmerizing vistas. Among the many places to visit in Greece, numerous people choose to spend a quaint holiday on these islands. They spend time mountaineering, strolling around the stunning villages, unearthing the lush-green forests, hiking, and trekking. One of the most famous Greece tourist places is Santorini. It is a majestic destination to spend your holidays. Best known for its stunning cliff-top towns of Fira and Oia hanging over the blue sea-filled caldera, Santorini is indeed phenomenal. There are many things to do in Santorini, such as sunbathing, swimming, visiting archaeological sites, and strolling around the streets of Santorini. As you move forward, you will see the most glamorous island destination, which is Mykonos. It is one of the popular places to visit in Greece because of its chic boutique hotels, delectable seafood, and many live music venues. Corfu, one of the top Greece tourist attractions, is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Here you can explore its romantic pedestrian-only streets, elegant Italianate architecture, and pebble beaches. In the list of Greece attractions, there is one unusual spot. It is Thessaly Plain, where peculiar rocky outcrops are capped by the time-worn monasteries of Meteora. To reach each monastery, you must climb up several stone steps. If you are in Greece and haven’t visited Crete, there’s still so much to untouched. Crete tops the bucket list of almost every person on this planet. You could even spend your entire vacation on Crete and never get bored. Crete has everything that your Greek vacation must have; culture, food, history, beaches, and nature. Knossos is one of the must-visit Greece tourist spots for all history buffs. For beach lovers, there is Elafonisi Beach with pink and white sand. All in all, Crete can satiate your wandering soul. After knowing all the above things & places to visit in Greece, you must be excited to discover various tourist attractions there. Then, we must tell you to don’t wait. Book your Greece tour package at pocket-friendly rates with Dook. You will get swept with so many Greece tourist places such as the Arch of Galerius, the Castle of Oia, the Temple of Apollo, the Acropolis Museum, Melissani Cave, and more.
Athens International Airport


Acropolis Museum
The Acropolis Museum is an archaeological museum focused on the findings of the archaeological site of the Acropolis of Athens. The museum was built to house every artifact found on the rock and on the surrounding slopes from the Greek Bronze Age to Roman and Byzantine Greece. It also lies over the ruins of a part of Roman and early Byzantine Athens. The museum was founded in 2003 while the Organization of the Museum was established in 2008. It opened to the public on 20 June 2009. More than 4250 objects are exhibited over an area of 14000 square metres. The Organization for the Construction of the new museum is chaired by Aristotle University of Thessaloniki Professor Emeritus of Archaeology Dimitrios Pandermalis.

Goulandris Museum


Thirassia Riva
Therasia also known as Thirasa is an island in the volcanic island group of Santorini in the Greek Cyclades. It lies north-west of Nea Kameni a small island formed in recent centuries by volcanic activity and thus marking the centre of the island group. Therasia is the second largest island of the group the largest by far being Thera. Therasia has a land area of 9.299 square kilometres and its population was 319 inhabitants at the 2011 census. It is part of the municipal unit of Oia. Thera and Therasia were separated by the Thera eruption. At Knossos in a LMIIIA context seven Linear B texts while calling upon all the gods make sure to grant primacy to an elsewhere-unattested entity called qe-ra-si-ja and once qe-ra-si-jo. However this probably refers to a god or a person rather than to an island Qherasia  Therasia. Anciently the island of Therasia possessed a town of the same name. Thirasia is also the book of Greek poet Dimitris Varos that became a music album and theatrical performance by Greek composer Giannis Markopoulos under the title Daring Communication - Electric Theseus.

Dilos
The island of Delos near Mykonos near the centre of the Cyclades archipelago is one of the most important mythological historical and archaeological sites in Greece. The excavations in the island are among the most extensive in the Mediterranean ongoing work takes place under the direction of the Ephorate of Antiquities of Cyclades and many of the artifacts found are on display at the Archaeological Museum of Delos and the National Archaeological Museum of Athens. Delos had a position as a holy sanctuary for a millennium before Olympian Greek mythology made it the birthplace of Apollo and Artemis. From its Sacred Harbour the horizon shows the three conical mounds that have identified landscapes sacred to a goddess in other sites one retaining its Pre-Greek name Mount Kynthos is crowned with a sanctuary of Zeus.

Panathenaic Stadium
The Panathenaic Stadium or Kallimarmaro is a multi-purpose stadium in Athens Greece. One of the main historic attractions of Athens it is the only stadium in the world built entirely of marble. A stadium was built on the site of a simple racecourse by the Athenian statesman Lykourgos c. 330 BC primarily for the Panathenaic Games. It was rebuilt in marble by Herodes Atticus an Athenian Roman senator by 144 AD and had a capacity of 50000 seats. After the rise of Christianity in the 4th century it was largely abandoned. The stadium was excavated in 1869 and hosted the Zappas Olympics in 1870 and 1875. After being refurbished it hosted the opening and closing ceremonies of the first modern Olympics in 1896 and was the venue for 4 of the 9 contested sports. It was used for various purposes in the 20th century and was once again used as an Olympic venue in 2004. It is the finishing point for the annual Athens Classic Marathon. It is also the last venue in Greece from where the Olympic flame handover ceremony to the host nation takes place.

Temple of Olympian Zeus


Vai Beach


Hadrian's Arch


Santorini Private Boats


Arch of Galerius


Castalia Spring


Temple of Apollo


Karavolades Stairs
Steps leading from the town center to the harbor. The trail is intensively used by donkeys which gave it the name Donkey Trail. There are about 600 steps with great views along the path. Walking down is easier than walking up so the alternative is to take the gondolas back up instead for 6 per passenger.

Museum of Prehistoric Thera
The Museum of Prehistoric Thera is located in Fira on the island of Santorini in Greece. It was built on the site of the old Ypapanti Church which was destroyed in the 1956 Amorgos earthquake. The Museum houses a very large number of ancient artifacts from various excavations on Santorini such as at Akrotiri and at the nearby Potamos site. The earliest excavations on Santorini were conducted by French geologist F. Fouque in 1867 after some local people found old artifacts at a quarry. Later in 1895-1900 the digs by German archeologist Baron Friedrich Hiller von Gaertringen revealed the ruins of ancient Thera on Mesa Vouno.[1] He focused on the settlements of the 9th century BC there believed to be a Spartan colony.

Ancient Thera
Ancient Thera is the name of an ancient perfectly round volcano island now known as Santorini. It was named after the mythical ruler of the island Theras and is known to have been inhabited by Greek Minoans as early as the 15th century BC when the volcano erupted resulting in a significant change to the shape of the island and killing many of the Minoan inhabitants. Starting in 1895 Friedrich Hiller von Gaertringen systematically investigated the city until 1904. Later excavations by N. Zapheiropoulos between 1961 and 1982 under the auspices of the Archaeological Society of Athens unearthed the citys necropolis in Sellada. Findings from these excavations are on exhibit at the archaeological museum in Fira. Excavation work was again taken up between 1990 and 1994 under the leadership of Wolfram Hoepfner of the Free University of Berlin and resulted in a more precise understanding of the history of southern Aegean.

Erechtheion
The Erechtheion or Temple of Athena Polias is an ancient Greek Ionic temple-Celestron on the north side of the Acropolis Athens which was primarily dedicated to the goddess Athena. The building made to house the statue of Athena Polias has in modern scholarship been called the Erechtheion in the belief that Pausanias description of the Erechtheion applies to this building. However whether the Erechtheion referred to by Pausanias is indeed the Ionic temple or an entirely different building has become a point of contention in recent decades.

Temple of Athena Nike
The Temple of Athena Nike is a temple on the Acropolis of Athens dedicated to the goddesses Athena and Nike. Built around 420 BC the temple is the earliest fully Ionic temple on the Acropolis.

Kamari Beach
Kamari is a seaside village on the southeast side of Santorini an island that is part of the Cyclades group of Greek islands. It has a long black sand and shingle beach. Though there are many taverns bars and clubs Kamari has a far more relaxed atmosphere than Thira. There are all the usual water-based activities plus a regular water taxi to take you around the headland to neighboring Perissa.

Island Of Delos
Delos is a Greek island and archaeological site in the Aegean Seas Cyclades archipelago near Mykonos. The mythological birthplace of Apollo was a major religious center and port during the 1st millennium B.C. The islands ruins encompass Doric temples markets an amphitheater houses with mosaics and the iconic Terrace of the Lions statues. The Archaeological Museum displays statues excavated from the site.

Meteora


Elafonissi Beach


Myrtos Beach


Odeon of Herodes Atticus


Heraklion Archaeological Museum


White Tower of Thessaloniki


Palace of the Grand Master of the Knights of Rhodes


Old Venetian Port of Chania


Stavros Niarchos Foundation Cultural


Temple of Hephaestus


Benaki Museum


Arkadi Monastery


The Achilleion Palace


Byzantine and Christian Museum


Venetian Fortezza Castle


Knossos Palace


Museum of Cycladic Art


The Benizelos Mansion


Castle of Oia


Perivolos Beach


Balos Beach


Melissani Cave


Porto Katsiki


National Garden


Corinth Canal


Lake Kournas


Preveli beach


Preveli beach


Falasarna beach


Kathisma Beach

Canada
Canada, the world’s second-largest country, boasts beautiful landscapes, incredible natural wonders, culturally rich cities, and impressive sights. It is a prominent holiday destination among tourists that attracts millions of travelers every year. Whether you are searching for outdoor adventure, Canada tourist attractions, bustling cities, or world-class dining, you can experience it all. Canada never fails to satiate the wanderlust of every traveler. From its spectacular towns to natural wonders, events & festivals, french heritage, family-friendly destinations, and diversity, you can experience it all in one place. If we talk about its natural beauty, Canada has it in abundance. From the steep peaks of the Rocky Mountains to the jagged coastline of the Atlantic provinces, there are various places to visit in Canada to admire nature. Canada is home to various national parks and wilderness areas, such as Jasper National Park, Algonquin Provincial Park, and Banff National Park. These national parks also offer a range of outdoor activities like hiking, wildlife viewing, and camping. One of the must-see Canada attractions is Niagara Falls. This natural attraction tops the list of best places to see in the world. It is the most iconic attraction and is magical to experience. Tourists enjoy the unparalleled views of this fall and click pictures. Canada’s buzzing cities are no less than attractions, each having its unique charm, cultural diversity, and charisma. Two of the most famous cities in Canada are Vancouver and Montreal. Vancouver is best known for its beautiful scenery, outdoor adventures, cultural scenes, and impressive arts. While Montreal is famous for its European charm, lively nightlife, and ancient architecture. Canada flaunts many cultural heritages, with dominations from indigenous people, French and British settlers, and immigrants. It houses a variety of museums, historic sites, and art galleries that showcase its varied history and culture. Among the many museums it has, the Canadian Museum of History is the largest and is one of the main Canada tourist attractions. It features Canadian history and culture. The other popular attractions are the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto and the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa. Besides exploring Canada tourist places, you can also indulge in outdoor adventure with a wide range of activities available in every season. If you visit Canada during the winter, you can go skiing or snowboarding. In addition, you can also enjoy hiking, fishing, camping, Kayaking, canoeing, and much more. If you are someone who admires the natural scenery, then you should visit Banff National Park. Snowcapped mountains, glaciers, and turquoise lakes are among the things that create a beautiful landscape of this park. To admire every bit of this stunning national park, you can take a picturesque drive or head off to the best hikes in Banff. One of the top Canada tourist spots is Lake Louise. The crystal clear water of the lake reflects the surrounding glaciers and mountains. Another iconic landmark in Canada is the CN Tower. Located on the shores of Lake Ontario, the tower stands tall at an impressive height of 553 meters. Undoubtedly, Canada is a coveted holiday destination that offers a myriad of things to every type of traveler. No matter what you are looking for in a vacation, you will get to experience everything here. The diverse landscapes of Canada are waiting to be unearthed by you. If you are looking for pocket-friendly Canada holiday packages, look no further than Dook International. We have hand-crafted tour packages for every kind of traveler. Now, wait no more and get ready for your vacation.
CN Tower
The CN Tower is a 553.3 m-high concrete communications and observation tower located in Downtown Toronto Ontario Canada. Built on the former Railway Lands it was completed in 1976. Its name CN originally referred to Canadian National the railway company that built the tower. Following the railways decision to divest non-core freight railway assets prior to the companys privatization in 1995 it transferred the tower to the Canada Lands Company a federal Crown corporation responsible for real estate development. The CN Tower held the record for the worlds tallest free-standing structure for 32 years until 2007 when it was surpassed by the Burj Khalifa and was the worlds tallest tower until 2009 when it was surpassed by the Canton Tower. It is now the ninth tallest free-standing structure in the world and remains the tallest free-standing structure on land in the Western Hemisphere. In 1995 the CN Tower was declared one of the modern Seven Wonders of the World by the American Society of Civil Engineers. It also belongs to the World Federation of Great Towers. It is a signature icon of Torontos skyline and attracts more than two million international visitors annually.

Casa Loma
Casa Loma is a Gothic Revival style mansion and garden in midtown Toronto Ontario Canada that is now a historic house museum and landmark. It was constructed from 1911 to 1914 as a residence for financier Sir Henry Pellatt. The architect was E. J. Lennox who designed several other city landmarks. Casa Loma sits at an elevation of 140 metres above sea level. Due to its unique architectural character in Toronto Casa Loma has been a popular filming location for movies and television. It is also a popular venue for wedding ceremonies and Casa Loma can be rented in the evenings after the museum closes to the public.

Royal Ontario Museum
The Royal Ontario Museum is a museum of art world culture and natural history in Toronto Ontario Canada. It is one of the largest museums in North America and the largest in Canada. It attracts more than one million visitors every year making the ROM the most-visited museum in Canada. The museum is north of Queens Park in the University of Toronto district with its main entrance on Bloor Street West. Museum subway station is named after the ROM and since a 2008 renovation is decorated to resemble the institutions collection. Established on 16 April 1912 and opened on 19 March 1914 the museum has maintained close relations with the University of Toronto throughout its history often sharing expertise and resources. The museum was under the direct control and management of the University of Toronto until 1968 when it became an independent Crown agency of the Government of Ontario. Today the museum is Canadas largest field-research institution with research and conservation activities around the world. With more than 6000000 items and 40 galleries the museums diverse collections of world culture and natural history contribute to its international reputation.

Notre-Dame Basilica of Montreal


Capilano Suspension Bridge Park


Stanley Park


Gastown


Gastown Steam Clock


Gastown Steam Clock


Granville Island
Granville Island is a peninsula and shopping district in Vancouver British Columbia Canada. It is located across False Creek from Downtown Vancouver under the south end of the Granville Street Bridge. The peninsula was once an industrial manufacturing area but today it is a hotspot for Vancouver tourism and entertainment. The area was named after Granville Leveson-Gower 2nd Earl Granville. The island is home to 275 businesses and facilities that employ more than 2500 people and generates more than 215-million in economic activity each year. Granville Island provides amenities such as a large public market an extensive marina a hotel Arts Umbrella False Creek Community Centre various performing arts theatres including Vancouvers only professional improvisational theatre company Vancouver Theatresports League the Arts Club Theatre Company and Carousel Theatre fine arts galleries and variety of shopping areas. The Granville Island Public Market features a farmers market day vendors and artists offering local Vancouver goods.

Art Gallery of Ontario
The Art Gallery of Ontario is an art museum in Toronto Ontario Canada. The museum is located in the Grange Park neighborhood of downtown Toronto on Dundas Street West between McCaul and Beverley streets just east of Chinatown.

Niagara Falls
Niagara Falls Ontario is a Canadian city with famous waterfalls of the same name linked with the U.S. by the Rainbow Bridge. Its site on the Niagara Rivers western shore overlooks the Horseshoe Falls the cascades most expansive section. Elevators take visitors to a lower wetter vantage point behind the falls. A cliffside park features a promenade alongside 520-ft.-high Skylon Tower with an observation deck.

Toronto Zoo
The Toronto Zoo is a zoo located in Toronto Ontario Canada. Encompassing 287 hectares the Toronto Zoo is the largest zoo in Canada. It is divided into seven zoogeographic regions Indo-Malaya Africa Americas Tundra Trek Australasia Eurasia and the Canadian Domain.

Nathan Phillips Square
Nathan Phillips Square is an urban plaza in Toronto Ontario Canada. It forms the forecourt to Toronto City Hall or New City Hall at the intersection of Queen Street West and Bay Street and is named for Nathan Phillips mayor of Toronto from 1955 to 1962.

High Park
High Park is a municipal park in Toronto Ontario Canada. High Park is a mixed recreational and natural park with sporting facilities cultural facilities educational facilities gardens playgrounds and a zoo. One-third of the park remains in a natural state with a rare oak savannah ecology.

Toronto Islands
The Toronto Islands are a chain of 15 small islands in Lake Ontario south of mainland Toronto Ontario Canada. Comprising the only group of islands in the western part of Lake Ontario the Toronto Islands are located just offshore from the citys downtown area provide shelter for Toronto Harbour and separate Toronto from the rest of Lake Ontario. The islands are home to the Toronto Island Park the Billy Bishop Toronto City Airport several private yacht clubs a public marina Centreville Amusement Park a year-round residential neighborhood and several public beaches. The island community is the largest urban car-free community in North America. Public ferries operate year-round from Jack Layton Ferry Terminal and privately operated water taxis operate from May to September. A pedestrian tunnel connects the mainland to the airport.

Little Italy
Little Italy sometimes referred to as College Street West is a district in Toronto Ontario Canada. It is known for its Italian Canadian restaurants and businesses. There is also a significant Latin-Canadian and Portuguese-Canadian community in the area. The district is centered on a restaurantbarshopping strip along College Street centered on College Street imprecisely between Harbord Street and Dundas Street and spreading out east and west between Bathurst Street and Ossington Avenue.

Textile Museum of Canada
The Textile Museum of Canada located in Toronto Ontario Canada is a museum dedicated to the collection exhibition and documentation of textiles. The Textile Museum of Canada has a permanent collection of more than 13000 textiles from around the world. Covering 2000 years of textile history the collection includes fabrics ceremonial cloths garments carpets quilts and related artifacts. The Textile Museum of Canada was founded as the Canadian Museum of Carpets and Textiles in 1975 by Max Allen and Simon Waegemaekers. Located above an ice cream shop in Mirvish Village the museums collection was initially based on textiles collected during business trips.

Smokey Hollow Falls
This waterfall is also known as Great Falls and Grindstone Falls. At 10 meters tall this isnt the areas biggest waterfall but this short and fast-flowing waterfall is surrounded by a great section of the Bruce Trail.

Parliament Hill
Parliament Hill colloquially known as The Hill is an area of Crown land on the southern banks of the Ottawa River in downtown Ottawa Ontario Canada. Its Gothic revival suite of buildings and their architectural elements of national symbolic importance is the home of the Parliament of Canada. Parliament Hill attracts approximately three million visitors each year. Law enforcement on Parliament Hill and in the parliamentary precinct is the responsibility of the Parliamentary Protective Service.

Rideau Canal
The Rideau Canal also known unofficially as the Rideau Waterway connects Canadas capital city of Ottawa Ontario to Lake Ontario and the Saint Lawrence River at Kingston. It is 202 kilometers long. The name Rideau French for curtain is derived from the curtain-like appearance of the Rideau Rivers twin waterfalls where they join the Ottawa River. The canal system uses sections of two rivers the Rideau and the Cataraqui as well as several lakes. Parks Canada operates the Rideau Canal.

Canadian War Museum
The Canadian War Museum is a national museum on the countrys military history in Ottawa Ontario Canada. The museum serves as both an educational facility on Canadian military history in addition to serving as a place of remembrance.

National Gallery of Canada
The National Gallery of Canada located in the capital city of Ottawa Ontario is Canadas national art museum. The museums building takes up 46621 square meters with 12400 square meters of space used for exhibiting art. It is one of the largest art museums in North America by exhibition space.

Peace Tower
The Peace Tower also known as the Tower of Victory and Peace is a focal bell and clock tower sitting on the central axis of the Centre Block of the Canadian parliament buildings in Ottawa Ontario. The present incarnation replaced the 55-meter Victoria Tower after the latter burned down in 1916 along with most of the Centre Block only the Library of Parliament survived. It serves as a Canadian icon and had been featured prominently on the Canadian twenty-dollar bill directly adjacent to the queens visage until the change to the polymer.

Canadian Museum of Nature
The Canadian Museum of Nature is a national natural history museum based in Canadas National Capital Region. The museums exhibitions and public programs are housed in the Victoria Memorial Museum Building a 18910 square metres structure in Ottawa Ontario.

National War Memorial
The National War Memorial titled The Response is a tall granite memorial arch with accreted bronze sculptures in Ottawa Ontario Canada designed by Vernon March and first dedicated by King George VI in 1939. Originally built to commemorate the Canadians who died in the First World War it was in 1982 rededicated to also include those killed in the Second World War and Korean War and again in 2014 to add the dead from the Second Boer War and War in Afghanistan as well as all Canadians killed in all conflicts past and future. It now serves as the pre-eminent war memorial of 76 cenotaphs in Canada. In 2000 the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier was added in front of the memorial and symbolizes the sacrifices made by all Canadians who have died or may yet die for their country.

Dows Lake Pavilion
Dows Lake in Ottawa Ontario Canada is a small man-made lake on the Rideau Canal situated two kilometers north of Hogs Back Falls in the middle of Ottawa. It is at the south end of Preston Street just south of Carling Avenue and just to the west of Bronson Avenue. At the south end of the lake is Carleton University and to the west is the Dominion Arboretum at the edge of the Central Experimental Farm. At the north end of the lake a pavilion is situated over the water with three restaurants overlooking the water. They are Umbrella Bar Lago and Mexis. Other services of the pavilion include canoe kayak and paddle boat rentals boat mooring and an indoor change area for skating. It is open year-round.
Austria
Austria, located in the heart of Europe, is a treat to tourists worldwide. Be it winter or summer, Austria never disappoints its globetrotters. Austria is a beautiful country to explore, from skiing in winter to strolling in Vienna in summer. Its dream-like landscapes, immaculate meadows & grasslands, incredible baroque architecture, and musical streets are what captivate tourists. As you move forward, the Austria tourist spots like the pretty countryside, magnificent cities, lavish desserts, and magical operas will intoxicate your soul. Among all the beautiful things, there are numerous places to visit in Austria for a memorable and serene vacation. Austria’s breathtaking scenery is one of the top reasons to visit this authentic destination at least once. The snow-capped mountain peaks of Austria attract several tourists who are passionate about Skiing and other winter sports. Another mesmerizing Austria tourist spot is the stunning blue lakes in the Salzkammergut region. Besides, Austria is famous for its unparalleled music scene. It is considered the abode of the European musical scene. One of the best Austria tourist attractions is its architectural sites. From Burgtheater to the Austrian Parliament Building to Schonbrunn Palace, and many more, Austria boasts some of the best architecture of all time. Moreover, if you are a fan of desserts, you can have some of the best sweet treats and coffee in Austria. Apart from the usual places to visit in Austria, you can also stroll around the dainty-wooden-alpine-style houses, lush-green meadows, and sparkling lakes. The magnificent Hofburg Palace in Vienna is a century-old building and one of the best Austria attractions. It spreads across 59 acres encompassing 19 courtyards and 2600 rooms; the Hofburg complex has many captivating squares and gardens. Salzburg Altstadt is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and used to be a spiritual center in Europe. Many tourists visit this site to explore colorful Baroque burgher houses, museums, and other fine attractions. If you want to explore the most charming small town in Austria, head to Hallstatt. It is a picturesque town in Austria that captivates every traveler’s attention. Besides, Belvedere Palace in Vienna is another most visited place in Austria. This Austria tourist place must be on your travel itinerary. The Belvedere Palace is divided into two sections- the Upper and Lower Palaces. In these two sections, you will see an impressive art collection, marvelous architectural gems, Marble Gallery, and much more. If you want to wander on magnificent mountain roads in Europe, you must head to Grossglockner Hochalpenstrasse. Brush up your heart and soul with Austria’s tallest waterfalls at Krimmler Ache. Overall, you will experience the best time in Austria. Once you are here, you will deny leaving this place. So, if you want to experience this wholesome location in Europe, reach out to Dook Travels. We will help you pick the best places to visit in Austria at budget-friendly rates. With Dook personalized tour packages, you can explore the whole of Austria in just a few days. From the Viennese Giant Ferris Wheel to Mirabell Palace to Salzburg to Fortress Hohensalzburg and more, Dook will offer everything. Now, don’t wait and book your favorite travel trail.
Tourismusverband Salzburger Altstadt


Swarovski Kristallwelten


Schlosskapelle Schnbrunn
The Cultural World Heritage Site of Schnbrunn Palace is Austrias most frequently visited tourist attraction. In the palace the residential and state rooms with their original furnishings and decorations convey an authentic impression of the imperial lifestyle. The park and gardens surrounding the palace make Schnbrunn in a unique synthesis of Baroque art as well as providing a convenient and highly popular recreational area for Viennas population.

Viennese Giant Ferris Wheel


Fortress Hohensalzburg
This amazing 11th-century castle overlooks Salzburg from a hill on the outskirts of the city. Fortress Hohensalzburg is a real eye-catcher high above the Baroque towers of the city. The castle remains a visible landmark to this day and is an unmistakable feature of Salzburgs world-famous skyline. From afar the mighty walls begin to reveal the history visitors experience at first hand within these sturdy defenses.

Salzburg Museum


Mirabell Palace


Schönbrunn Palace


Innsbrucker Nordkettenbahnen
The tyrolean government decided to cloase all Ski Resorts in Tyrol from the 16th of march on due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We will keep you updated during the coming weeks. We advice you to stay calm and to watch yourselves and your families.

Designer Outlet Parndorf
Designer brand shopping in more than 160 exclusive designer stores just 30 minutes away from Vienna and 25 minutes from Bratislava. From iconic fashion brands like Prada Armani Bally and Gucci to sporting labels like Nike and Adidas and high-street favourites like Tommy Hilfiger Polo Ralph Lauren Guess Diesel and Desigual - You can find your favourite labels with price reductions of up to 70% all year round and further discounts at our annual summer and winter sales. Our selection of carefully designed services and amenities include - Shopping until 8 pm from Monday to Wednesday - Shopping until 9 pm on Thursday and Friday - Daily shuttle bus from Vienna - Global Blue Tax Refund office to claim back your tax - Modern centre information desk with multi-lingual staff - Restaurants and cafes serving local and European cuisine - Specially designed childrens play areas - Free and convenient parking - Exciting events like late night shopping event in March August and November

Schnbrunn Zoo
Schnbrunn Zoo is a 17-hectare zoo in the city of Vienna Austria. Established in 1752 it is the worlds oldest zoo still in operation. It is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site being a part of the Schnbrunn Palace gardens. It generally receives more than 2 million visitors every year. As of 2021 it presented a total of 707 different species with around 8250 specimens. Its primary attractions include the giant pandas being one of only 27 zoos in the world to have them. Anthony Sheridans zoo rankings recognized Schnbrunn Zoo as the best zoo in Europe in the years 2008 2010 2012 2014 2018 and 2021. Zoologist Stephan Hering-Hagenbeck has been the zoos director since 2019.

St. Stephens Cathedral Vienna
St. Stephens Cathedral is the mother church of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Vienna and the seat of the Archbishop of Vienna Christoph Cardinal Schnborn OP. The current Romanesque and Gothic form of the cathedral seen today in the Stephansplatz was largely initiated by Duke Rudolf IV and stands on the ruins of two earlier churches the first a parish church consecrated in 1147. The most important religious building in Vienna St. Stephens Cathedral has borne witness to many important events in Habsburg and Austrian history and has with its multi-colored tile roof become one of the citys most recognizable symbols.

Albertina
The Albertina is a museum in the Innere Stadt of Vienna Austria. It houses one of the largest and most important print rooms in the world with approximately 65000 drawings and approximately 1 million old master prints as well as more modern graphic works photographs and architectural drawings. Apart from the graphics collection the museum has recently acquired on permanent loan two significant collections of Impressionist and early 20th-century art some of which will be on permanent display. The museum also houses temporary exhibitions. The museum had 360073 visitors in 2020 down 64 percent from 2019 due to the COVID-19 pandemic but still ranked 55th in the List of most-visited art museums in the world.

Belvedere Palace
The Belvedere is a historic building complex in Vienna Austria consisting of two Baroque palaces the Orangery and the Palace Stables. The buildings are set in a Baroque park landscape in the third district of the city on the southeastern edge of its center. It houses the Belvedere museum. The grounds are set on a gentle gradient and include decorative tiered fountains and cascades Baroque sculptures and majestic wrought iron gates. The Baroque palace complex was built as a summer residence for Prince Eugene of Savoy.

Schwarzsee
Swimming & boating on a mountain lake with trails through a surrounding forest & wildlife preserve.

Mayrhofen
Mayrhofen is a town in the Zillertal in the Austrian state of Tyrol. It is located approximately an hour from the Tyrolean capital city of Innsbruck. The town offers a variety of summer and winter sports including skiing hiking mountain biking and paragliding. Mayrhofen is situated near the Hintertux glacier which at 3250 meters above sea level is above the snowline. Skiing is available all year round here. Mayrhofen sits between the Penken and the Ahorn mountains which provide ski runs in the winter and mountain biking hiking and paragliding in the summer. The Ahorn offers mainly easy and intermediate runs but also has a long steep black run which was once on the World Cup Downhill circuit but was removed as it was deemed too dangerous.

Goldenes Dachl
The Goldenes Dachl is a landmark structure located in the Old Town section of Innsbruck Austria. It is considered the citys most famous symbol. Completed in 1500 the roof was decorated with 2657 fire-gilded copper tiles for Emperor Maximilian I to mark his wedding to Bianca Maria Sforza.

Ambras Castle
Ambras Castle is a Renaissance castle and palace located in the hills above Innsbruck Austria. Ambras Castle is 632 meters above sea level. Considered one of the most popular tourist attractions of Tyrol Ambras Castle was built in the 16th century on the spot of an earlier 10th-century castle which became the seat of power for the Counts of Andechs. The cultural and historical importance of the Castle is closely connected with Archduke Ferdinand II and served as his familys residence from 1567 to 1595. Ferdinand was one of historys most prominent collectors of art. The princely sovereign of Tyrol son of Emperor Ferdinand I ordered that the medieval fortress at Ambras be turned into a Renaissance castle as a gift for his wife Philippine Welser.
United Kingdom
The United Kingdom, Europe’s most loved tourist destination, has Scottish landscapes, imperial castles & forts, cultural & historical sights, and the British Royal family. Without a doubt, the UK tops the bucket list of every traveler. From exceptional views to urban adventures to beautiful towns & cities to multi-layered British history and British pubs & festivals, your wandering soul will be mesmerized. United Kingdom attractions and British traditions and eccentricities captivate tourists worldwide. These traditions may have lost their origin, but no one cares as long as they enjoy them. These traditions are Hogmanay, The Fire Festival of Scotland, The Olney Pancake Race, and Guy Fawkes. Among the top United Kingdom tourist attractions, some are known for their marvelous architecture. These are the Romantic Castle Hotels of England, Wales, & Scotland, Anne Hathaway’s Cottage, Windsor Castle, York Minister, and Longleat House. The UK indeed offers a unique appeal to its visitors. Besides United Kingdom tourist attractions, Britain also provides some of the best places to eat in the United Kingdom. You will find a lot of fine dining, cafes, bistros, and famous restaurants around the country. The British gardens are one of the top places to visit in the United Kingdom. The British people have traditional interests in plants. Some of the best gardens to visit in England are Hidcote Manor, RHS Garden Wisley, Sissinghurst Castle Garden, and Fountains Abbey & Studley Royal Water Garden. Even these gardens are favorite United Kingdom tourist spots where you can spend quality time among the bushes. One of the best things about the UK holiday is how easy it is to explore fascinating Britain and its diverse scenery. The United Kingdom’s sprawling capital boasts plenty of attractions to keep the tourist busy. If you want to learn about the UK’s history, you must visit the Tower of London. One of the most popular United Kingdom tourist places is Buckingham Palace. This London Royal house is much older than you think. Edinburgh is another tourist place to visit in the United Kingdom.  It is most commonly known as the home of the magnificent Edinburgh Castle. From here, you can move forward to explore other historic sites like the Old Town’s Royal Mile, Princess Street, the Royal Botanical Garden, and the National Gallery of Scotland. Roman-Era Bath is another city that lures many travelers to its healing waters for over 2,000 years. A beautiful town in England is Cotswolds covering almost 1,287 sq. km., which is one of the most pictured corners. It is one of the most visited United Kingdom tourist places where travelers experience the taste of rural English life. If you are in England, don’t forget to visit the majestic Lake District in Cumbria. It is famous for its spectacular scenery, place of romance, and great culture. In case you head to Scotland, be sure to visit Loch Ness. It is one of the admired United Kingdom tourist attractions. Considering everything, the United Kingdom is indeed one of the most wonderful places to visit. One must visit the UK at least once to explore its beauty. From Palm house to Windsor Castle to Piccadilly Circus to Madame Tussauds to the National Museum of Scotland to London Eye and much more, you won’t leave this place empty-handed. If you are ready to get swept away with all the best places to visit in the United Kingdom, then book your tour package with Dook now.
Piccadilly Circus
Piccadilly Circus is a road junction and public space of Londons West End in the City of Westminster. It was built in 1819 to connect Regent Street with Piccadilly. In this context a circus from the Latin word meaning circle is a round open space at a street junction.

Madame Tussauds
Madame Tussauds is a wax museum in London it has smaller museums in a number of other major cities. It was founded by wax sculptor Marie Tussaud in 1835. It used to be spelled as Madame Tussauds the apostrophe is no longer used. Madame Tussauds is a major tourist attraction in London displaying the waxworks of famous and historical figures as well as popular film and tele

London Eye
The London Eye or the Millennium Wheel is a cantilevered observation wheel on the South Bank of the River Thames in London. It is Europes tallest cantilevered observation wheel and is the most popular paid tourist attraction in the United Kingdom with over 3 million visitors annually and has made many appearances in popular culture.

Tower of London
The Tower of London officially Her Majestys Royal Palace and Fortress of the Tower of London is a historic castle on the north bank of the River Thames in central London. It lies within the London Borough of Tower Hamlets which is separated from the eastern edge of the square mile of the City of London by the open space known as Tower Hill. It was founded towards the end of 1066 a

Big Ben
Big Ben is the nickname for the Great Bell of the striking clock at the north end of the Palace of Westminster in London the name is frequently extended to refer to both the clock and the clock tower. The official name of the tower in which Big Ben is located was originally the Clock Tower it was renamed Elizabeth Tower in 2012 to mark the Diamond Jubilee of Elizabeth II Queen of the United King

St Paul cathedral
British Museum Co Ltd operates as a museum. The company was founded in 1972 and is based in London United Kingdom. It was formerly known as British Museum Publications Limited and changed its name in 1995. British Museum Co Ltd operates as a subsidiary of The Trustees Of The British Museum.

Trafalgar Square
Trafalgar Square is a public square in the City of Westminster Central London established in the early 19th century around the area formerly known as Charing Cross. The Squares name commemorates the Battle of Trafalgar the British naval victory in the Napoleonic Wars over France and Spain that took place on 21 October 1805 off the coast of Cape Trafalgar.

Buckingham Palace
Buckingham Palace is the London residence and administrative headquarters of the monarch of the United Kingdom. Located in the City of Westminster the palace is often at the centre of state occasions and royal hospitality. It has been a focal point for the British people at times of national rejoicing and mourning.

St. Pauls Cathedral
St Pauls Cathedral is an Anglican cathedral in London United Kingdom which as the cathedral of the Bishop of London serves as the mother church of the Diocese of London. It sits on Ludgate Hill at the highest point of the City of London and is a Grade I listed building. Its dedication to Paul the Apostle dates back to the original church on this site founded in AD 604. The present cathedral dating from the late 17th century was designed in the English Baroque style by Sir Christopher Wren. Its construction completed in Wrens lifetime was part of a major rebuilding programme in the City after the Great Fire of London. The earlier Gothic cathedral largely destroyed in the Great Fire was a central focus for medieval and early modern London including Pauls walk and St Pauls Churchyard being the site of St Pauls Cross. The cathedral is one of the most famous and most recognisable sights of London. Its dome framed by the spires of Wrens City churches has dominated the skyline for over 300 years. At 365 feet high it was the tallest building in London from 1710 to 1963. The dome remains among the highest in the world.

Houses Of Parliament
If you are looking to visit the Houses of Parliament the Information Office should be contacted beforehand. Visitors are more likely to get in quickly if they queue for the afternoon sessions. Tours are available from 7th August to the 16th September when both houses are in recess. Groups and educational visits are warmly invited. Disabled facilities are available and guide dogs are als

Hyde Park
Hyde Park is a Grade I-listed major park in Central London. It is the largest of four Royal Parks that form a chain from the entrance of Kensington Palace through Kensington Gardens and Hyde Park via Hyde Park Corner and Green Park past the main entrance to Buckingham Palace. The park is divided by the Serpentine and the Long Water lakes.

St Pauls Cathedral
St Pauls Cathedral is an Anglican cathedral in London United Kingdom which as the cathedral of the Bishop of London serves as the mother church of the Diocese of London. It sits on Ludgate Hill at the highest point of the City of London and is a Grade I listed building. Its dedication to Paul the Apostle dates back to the original church on this site founded in AD 604. The present cat

Tower Bridge
Tower Bridge is a combined bascule and suspension bridge in London built between 1886 and 1894. The bridge crosses the River Thames close to the Tower of London and has become a world-famous symbol of London. As a result it is sometimes confused with London Bridge about half a mile upstream. Tower Bridge is one of five London bridges owned and maintained by the B

Windsor Castle
Windsor Castle is a royal residence at Windsor in the English county of Berkshire. It is strongly associated with the English and succeeding British royal family and embodies almost 1000 years of architectural history.

National Museum of Scotland
The National Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh Scotland was formed in 2006 with the merger of the new Museum of Scotland with collections relating to Scottish antiquities culture and history and the adjacent Royal Scottish Museum with collections covering science and technology natural history and world cultures. The two connected buildings stand beside each other on Ch

Princes Street Gardens
Princes Street Gardens are two adjacent public parks in the centre of Edinburgh Scotland lying in the shadow of Edinburgh Castle. The Gardens were created in two phases in the 1770s and 1820s following the long draining of the Nor Loch and building of the New Town beginning in the 1760s.

Edinburgh Castle
Edinburgh Castle is a historic fortress which dominates the skyline of Edinburgh the capital city of Scotland from its position on the Castle Rock. Archaeologists have established human occupation of the rock since at least the Iron Age although the nature of the early settlement is unclear. There has been a royal castle on the rock since at least the reign of David I in the 12th century an

York Castle Museum
York Castle Museum is a museum located in York North Yorkshire England on the site of York Castle which was originally built by William the Conqueror in 1068. The museum itself was founded by John L. Kirk in 1938 and is housed in prison buildings which were built on the site of the castle in the 18th century the debtors prison and the female prison.

One Hyde Park
One Hyde Park is a major residential and retail complex located in Knightsbridge London. The development includes three retail units totalling 385000 sq ft and 86 residential properties marketed with prices starting at around 20 million.

Old St Pauls Cathedral
Old St Pauls Cathedral was the cathedral of the City of London that until 1666 stood on the site of the present St Pauls Cathedral. Built from 1087 to 1314 and dedicated to Saint Paul the cathedral was perhaps the fourth church at Ludgate Hill.

Belfast City Hall
Belfast City Hall is the civic building of Belfast City Council located in Donegall Square Belfast Northern Ireland. It faces North and effectively divides the commercial and business areas of the city centre. It is a Grade A listed building.

Titanic Belfast
Titanic Belfast is a visitor attraction opened in 2012 a monument to Belfasts maritime heritage on the site of the former Harland & Wolff shipyard in the citys Titanic Quarter where the RMS Titanic was built. It tells the stories of the Titanic which hit an iceberg and sank during her maiden voyage in 1912 and her sister ships RMS Olympic and HMHS Britannic. The building contains more than

Ulster Museum
The Ulster Museum located in the Botanic Gardens in Belfast has around 8000 square metres of public display space featuring material from the collections of fine art and applied art archaeology ethnography treasures from the Spanish Armada local history numismatics industrial archaeology botany zoology and geology. It is the largest museum in Northern Ireland and one of the comp

Crumlin Road Courthouse
The Crumlin Road Courthouse is a former judicial facility on Crumlin Road in Belfast Northern Ireland.

Belfast Castle
Belfast Castle is set on the slopes of Cavehill Country Park Belfast Northern Ireland in a prominent position 400 feet above sea level. Its location provides unobstructed views of the city of Belfast and Belfast Lough.

Stormont


Giants Causeway And Causeway Coast
The Giants Causeway is an area of about 40000 interlocking basalt columns the result of an ancient volcanic fissure eruption. It is located in County Antrim on the north coast of Northern Ireland about three miles northeast of the town of Bushmills. It was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1986 and a national nature reserve in 1987 by the Department of the Environment for Northern Ireland. In a 2005 poll of Radio Times readers the Giants Causeway was named the fourth greatest natural wonder in the United Kingdom. The tops of the columns form stepping stones that lead from the cliff foot and disappear under the sea. Most of the columns are hexagonal although there are also some with four five seven or eight sides. The tallest are about 12 metres high and the solidified lava in the cliffs is 28 metres thick in places. Much of the Giants Causeway and Causeway Coast World Heritage Site is owned and managed by the National Trust. It is one of the most popular tourist attractions in Northern Ireland receiving over 998000 visitors in 2019. Access to the Giants Causeway is free of charge it is not necessary to go via the visitors centre which charges a fee.

Palm House


St Anne's Cathedral Belfast
St Annes Cathedral also known as Belfast Cathedral is a Church of Ireland cathedral in Donegall Street Belfast Northern Ireland. It is unusual in serving two separate dioceses. It is the focal point of Belfasts Cathedral Quarter.

Tynwald Hill


St Patrick's Cemetery (RAF Jurby)


Westminster Abbey
Westminster Abbey formally titled the Collegiate Church of Saint Peter at Westminster is a large mainly Gothic abbey church in the City of Westminster London England just to the west of the Palace of Westminster. It is one of the United Kingdoms most notable religious buildings and the traditional place of coronation and burial site for English and later British monarchs. The build

St Georges Chapel Windsor Castle
St. Georges Chapel at Windsor Castle in England is a chapel built in high-medieval Gothic style. It is both a Royal Peculiar a church under the direct jurisdiction of the monarch and the Chapel of the Order of the Garter. It is located in the Lower Ward of the castle. St. Georges castle chapel was originally founded in the 14th century by King Edward III and extensively enlarged in t

Camera Obscura And World Of Illusions
Camera Obscura & World of Illusions is a major tourist attraction in the Old Town Edinburgh Scotland located on Castlehill section of the Royal Mile close to Edinburgh Castle. Founded by entrepreneur Maria Theresa Short in 1835 and a key site in Patrick Geddes development of regional planning. This visitor attraction is now home to over 100 interactive exhibits including the origin

Holyrood Palace
The Palace of Holyroodhouse commonly referred to as Holyrood Palace is the official residence of the British monarch in Scotland Queen Elizabeth II. Located at the bottom of the Royal Mile in Edinburgh at the opposite end to Edinburgh Castle Holyrood Palace served as the principal residence of the Kings and Queens of Scots since the 16th century and is now a setting for state occa

Calton Hill
Calton Hill is a hill in central Edinburgh Scotland situated beyond the east end of Princes Street and included in the citys UNESCO World Heritage Site. Views of and from the hill are often used in photographs and paintings of the city.

Jupiter Artland
Jupiter Artland is a contemporary sculpture park and art gallery in Edinburgh Scotland. Jupiter Artland Foundation is a registered charity that is subsidized by classes workshops events ticket sales and donations.

Glasgow Cathedral
Glasgow Cathedral also called the High Kirk of Glasgow or St Kentigerns or St Mungos Cathedral is the oldest cathedral on mainland Scotland and is the oldest building in Glasgow. Since the Reformation the cathedral continues in public ownership within the responsibility of Historic Environment Scotland. The congregation is part of the Church of Scotlands Presbytery of Glasgow an

Maid Of The Forth


Inverness Cathedral, dedicated to St Andrew


Inverness Castle


Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery
Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery is a museum and art gallery in Birmingham England. It has a collection of international importance covering fine art ceramics metalwork jewellery natural history archaeology ethnography local history and industrial history.

National Sea Life Centre
The National Sea Life Centre is an aquarium with over 60 displays of freshwater and marine life in Brindleyplace Birmingham England. Its ocean tank has a capacity of 1000000 litres of water and houses giant green sea turtles blacktip reef sharks and tropical reef fish with the only fully transparent 360-degree underwater tunnel in the United Kingdom. The building was designed by Sir

Warwick Castle
Warwick Castle is a medieval castle developed from a wooden fort originally built by William the Conqueror during 1068. Warwick is the county town of Warwickshire England situated on a bend of the River Avon. The original wooden motte-and-bailey castle was rebuilt in stone during the 12th century. During the Hundred Years War the facade opposite the town was refortifie

Cadbury World
Cadbury World is a visitor attraction in Birmingham England featuring a self-guided exhibition tour created and run by the Cadbury Company. The tour tells the history of chocolate and of the Cadbury business.

Great Western Arcade


Anfield
Anfield is a football stadium in Anfield Liverpool Merseyside England which has a seating capacity of 53394 making it the seventh largest football stadium in England. It has been the home of Liverpool Football Club since their formation in 1892. It was originally the home of Everton from 1884 to 1891 before they moved to Goodison Park after a dispute with the club president.

Merseyside Maritime Museum
The Merseyside Maritime Museum is a museum based in the city of Liverpool Merseyside England UK. It is part of National Museums Liverpool and an Anchor Point of ERIH The European Route of Industrial Heritage. It opened for a trial season in 1980 before fully opening in 1984 and expanding in 1986. The museum occupies warehouse block D at the Albert Dock along with the Pie

Liverpool Cathedral
Liverpool Cathedral is the Cathedral of the Diocese of Liverpool built on St Jamess Mount in Liverpool and the seat of the Bishop of Liverpool. It may be referred to as the Cathedral Church of Christ in Liverpool or the Cathedral Church of the Risen Christ Liverpool being dedicated to Christ in especial remembrance of his most glorious Resurrection. Liverpool Cathedral is the

Museum of Liverpool
The Museum of Liverpool in Liverpool England is the newest addition to the National Museums Liverpool group having opened in 2011 replacing the former Museum of Liverpool Life. National Museums Liverpool intention is for the new venue to tell the story of Liverpool and its people and reflect the citys global significance. The museum is housed in a new purpose-built building on the

Shakespeares Birthplace
Shakespeares Birthplace is a restored 16th-century half-timbered house situated in Henley Street Stratford-upon-Avon Warwickshire England where it is believed that William Shakespeare was born in 1564 and spent his childhood years. It is now a small museum open to the public and a popular visitor attraction owned and managed by the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust. It ha

Stafford Castle
Stafford Castle is an ancient Grade II listed castle situated two miles west of the town of Stafford in Staffordshire England. From the time of the Norman Conquest and as recorded in the Domesday Book of 1086 it was the seat of the powerful Anglo-Norman Stafford family feudal barons of Stafford later Barons Stafford by writ Earls of Stafford and Dukes of Buckingham. The 14th-cent

William Brown Library and Museum
The William Brown Library and Museum is a Grade II listed building situated on the historic William Brown Street in Liverpool England. The building currently houses part of the World Museum Liverpool and Liverpool Central Library.

Manchester Museum
Manchester Museum is a museum displaying works of archaeology anthropology and natural history and is owned by the University of Manchester in England. Sited on Oxford Road at the heart of the universitys group of neo-Gothic buildings it provides access to about 4.5 million items from every continent. It is the UKs largest university museum and serves both as a ma

Manchester Town Hall
Manchester Town Hall is a Victorian Neo-gothic municipal building in Manchester England. It is the ceremonial headquarters of Manchester City Council and houses a number of local government departments. The building faces Albert Square to the north and St Peters Square to the south with Manchester Cenotaph facing its southern entrance.

Library of Birmingham
The Library of Birmingham is a public library in Birmingham England. It is situated on the west side of the city centre at Centenary Square beside the Birmingham Rep and Baskerville House. Upon opening on 3 September 2013 it replaced Birmingham Central Library. The library which is estimated to have cost 188.8 million is viewed by the Birmingham City Council as a flagship

Roman Baths
The Roman Baths are well-preserved thermae in the city of Bath Somerset England. A temple was constructed on the site between 6070 AD in the first few decades of Roman Britain. Its presence led to the development of the small Roman urban settlement known as Aquae Sulis around the site.

Stonehenge
Stonehenge is a prehistoric monument in Wiltshire England two miles west of Amesbury. It consists of a ring of standing stones each around 13 feet high seven feet wide and weighing around 25 tons. The stones are set within earthworks in the middle of the most dense complex of Neolithic and Bronze Age monuments in England including several hundred tumuli.

Longleat
Longleat Safari and Adventure Park in Wiltshire England was opened in 1966 as the first drive-through safari park outside Africa.

Bath Abbey
Bath Abbey is a parish church of the Church of England and a former Benedictine monastery in Bath Somerset England. Founded in the 7th century it was reorganized in the 10th century and rebuilt in the 12th and 16th centuries major restoration work was carried out by Sir George Gilbert Scott in the 1860s.

Cardiff Castle
Cardiff Castle is a medieval castle and Victorian Gothic revival mansion located in the city centre of Cardiff Wales. The original motte and bailey castle was built in the late 11th century by Norman invaders on top of a 3rd-century Roman fort. The castle was commissioned either by William the Conqueror or by Robert Fitzhamon and formed the heart of the medieval town of Cardiff and the M

The Tank Museum
The Tank Museum is a collection of armoured fighting vehicles at Bovington Camp in Dorset South West England. It is about 1 mile north of the village of Wool and 12 miles west of the major port of Poole. The collection traces the history of the tank. With almost 300 vehicles on exhibition from 26 countries it is the largest collection of tanks and the third largest collection of armoured v

National Museum Cardiff
National Museum Cardiff is a museum and art gallery in Cardiff Wales. The museum is part of the wider network of Amgueddfa Cymru  National Museum Wales. Entry is kept free by a grant from the Welsh Government however they do ask for donations throughout the museum.

Longleat Priory
Longleat Priory was a priory near Warminster Wiltshire in the south of England. A short-lived priory was established and dissolved near to Longleat in the 12th century. The main priory was established before 1233 and was under the control of the Dean of SLongleat Priory was a priory near Warminster Wiltshire in the south of England. A short-lived priory was established and dissolved near Longleat in the 12th century. The main priory was established before 1233 and was under the control of the Dean of Salisbury until its dissolution in 1529.

Wookey Hole Caves
Wookey Hole Caves are a series of limestone caverns a show cave and a tourist attraction in the village of Wookey Hole on the southern edge of the Mendip Hills near Wells in Somerset England. The River Axe flows through the cave. It is a Site of Special Scientific Interest for both biological and geological reasons.

Royal Crescent
The Royal Crescent is a row of 30 terraced houses laid out in a sweeping crescent in the city of Bath England. Designed by the architect John Wood the Younger and built between 1767 and 1774 it is among the greatest examples of Georgian architecture to be found in the United Kingdom and is a Grade I listed building.

Royal Albert Dock Liverpool


Chester Zoo
Chester Zoo is a zoo at Upton by Chester in Cheshire England. Chester Zoo was opened in 1931 by George Mottershead and his family. It is one of the UKs largest zoos at 51 hectares. The zoo has a total land holding of approximately 160 hectares.

Blackpool Tower
Blackpool Tower is a tourist attraction in Blackpool Lancashire England which was opened to the public on 14 May 1894. When it opened Blackpool Tower was the tallest man made structure in the British Empire. Inspired by the Eiffel Tower in Paris it is 518 feet tall and is the 125th-tallest freestanding tower in the world. Blackpool Tower is also the common name for the Tower Buildings

British Museum
The British Museum in the Bloomsbury area of London United Kingdom is a public institution dedicated to human history art and culture. Its permanent collection of some eight million works is among the largest and most comprehensive in existence having been widely sourced during the era of the British Empire. It documents the story of human culture from its beginning

The National Gallery
The National Gallery is an art museum in Trafalgar Square in the City of Westminster in Central London. Founded in 1824 it houses a collection of over 2300 paintings dating from the mid-13th century to 1900.

Victoria and Albert Museum
The Victoria and Albert Museum in London is the worlds largest museum of applied and decorative arts and design as well as sculpture housing a permanent collection of over 2.27 million objects. It was founded in 1852 and named after Queen Victoria and Prince Albert.

National Railway Museum
The National Railway Museum is a museum in York forming part of the Science Museum Group. The museum tells the story of rail transport in Britain and its impact on society.

York Minster
The Cathedral and Metropolitical Church of Saint Peter in York commonly known as York Minster is the cathedral of York North Yorkshire England and is one of the largest of its kind in Northern Europe.

The Shambles
The Shambles is a historic street in York England featuring preserved medieval buildings some dating back as far as the fourteenth century. The street is narrow with many timber-framed buildings with jettied floors that overhang the street by several feet.

York city walls
York has since Roman times been defended by walls of one form or another. To this day substantial portions of the walls remain and York has more miles of intact wall than any other city in England. They are known variously as York City Walls the Bar Walls and the Roman walls. The walls are generally 13 feet high and 6 feet wide.

Yorkshire Wildlife Park
The Yorkshire Wildlife Park commonly referred to as YWP is a wildlife park located in Doncaster South Yorkshire in England. It was built on a former riding school which closed to the public in November 2008.

Royal Mile
The Royal Mile is a succession of streets forming the main thoroughfare of the Old Town of the city of Edinburgh in Scotland. The term was first used descriptively in W M Gilberts Edinburgh in the Nineteenth Century ...with its Castle and Palace and the royal mile between and was further popularised as the title of a guidebook published in 1920.

HMY Britannia
Her Majestys Yacht Britannia also known as the Royal Yacht Britannia is the former royal yacht of the British monarch Queen Elizabeth II in service from 1954 until 1997. She was the 83rd such vessel since King Charles II acceded to the throne in 1660 and is the second royal yacht to bear the name the first being the racing cutter built for the Prince of Wales in 1893. During her 43-y

Arthurs Seat
Arthurs Seat is an extinct volcano which is the main peak of the group of hills in Edinburgh Scotland which form most of Holyrood Park described by Robert Louis Stevenson as a hill for magnitude a mountain in virtue of its bold design. It is situated just to the east of the city centre about 1 mile to the east of Edinburgh Castle. The hill rises above the city to a height of 250.5 m provid

Blackpool Pleasure Beach railway station
Blackpool Pleasure Beach railway station serves the Blackpool Pleasure Beach theme park. It is the penultimate station before Blackpool South on the Blackpool South to Colne line. There are no free tickets or other concessions for passengers wishing to visit the Pleasure Beach. Pleasure Beach Station is located about 300 metres from Burlington Road West tram stop on the Bla

Blackpool Pleasure Beach
Blackpool Pleasure Beach is an amusement park situated on Blackpools South Shore in the county of Lancashire North West England. The park was founded in 1896 by A.W.G. Bean and his partner John Outhwaite and has been family owned and operated since its inception. The current Managing Director is Beans great-granddaughter Amanda Thompson.
Liechtenstein
South Africa
“Africa changes you forever, like nowhere on earth. Once you have been there, you will never be the same.” This clearly reverberates that the continent is vibrantly diverse, has a seductive appeal for the travellers but take a brief look at the incredibly beautiful southern tip of Africa and you will know how the quote mentioned above is well justified. South Africa, usually seen as a rare find on the earth and a crowning jewel of Africa, is a country abundantly filled with niche experiences. With a rich medley of cultures and history, vast wildlife moments including the Big Five spotting, raw natural beauty, adventure choices and sun-kissed beaches, there’s no surprise about why South Africa Attractions have gained so much preference over the last few years. Add in the eclectic mix of off-beat places, world-class infrastructure adorning the sophisticated cities, wide-open savannahs and Kalahari dunes, star-studded desert skies and the warm smiles of the local tribes and it is easy to believe why South Africa keeps tempting the visitors all year round. The country is chugging fast forward on the list of most preferred tourist destinations across the world; what sets it apart from other African destinations is its huge, versatile portfolio of experiences that cater to almost every segment of travellers. Families and wildlife aficionados find their portion of fun and thrill in game reserves and national parks while the solo travellers and couples like to take the Garden Route to see the great gaping gorges or just bask in calmness at the sun-soaked beaches and also, the gastronomes who love to feed their soul with Cape Malay cuisine and Stellenbosch wines. Some of the most popularly favoured South Africa Tourist Attractions include the dramatic Table Mountain, the city of Cape Town, Johannesburg city which is known for Kruger National Park, Port Elizabeth and Apartheid Museum and so much more that is sure to leave you stirred and spellbound.  With a profusion of versatility and authenticity on offer and a rich assortment of wildlife found nowhere else on the earth, South Africa justifies its label- “world in one country”. We have jotted down an extensive list of the best places to visit in South Africa that not only give you a detailed glimpse of the country but also encourage you to plan your trip to South Africa super soon.
South African Jewish Museum
The South African Jewish Museum was officially opened by Nelson Mandela in December 2000. The brainchild of legendary South Africa philanthropist Mendel Kaplan the museum has since established itself as one of the citys must-see attractions.

Cape Point
Cape Point is a promontory at the southeast corner of the Cape Peninsula which is a mountainous and scenic landform that runs north-south for about thirty kilometres at the extreme southwestern tip of the African continent in the Republic of South Africa.

Castle of Good Hope
The Castle of Good Hope  known locally as the Castle or Cape Town Castle is a bastion fort built in the 17th century in Cape Town South Africa. Originally located on the coastline of Table Bay following land reclamation the fort is now located inland.In 1936 the Castle was declared a historical monument (now a provincial heritage site) and following restorations in the 1980s it is considered the best preserved example of a Dutch East India Company fort.

Table Mountain


Boulders Beach


African Budget Safaris


Tafelberg Road


Apartheid Museum
The Apartheid Museum is a museum in Johannesburg South Africa illustrating apartheid and the 20th century history of South Africa. The museum part of the Gold Reef City complex was opened in November 2001.

Kaaimans River Cottage


Map Of Africa View Point


Thesen Island


Wilderness National Park


George Museum


Voortrekker Monument
The Voortrekker Monument is located just south of Pretoria in South Africa. This massive granite structure is prominently located on a hilltop and was raised to commemorate the Voortrekkers who left the Cape Colony between 1835 and 1854.

Cango Caves


Cape St Blaize Lighthouse Complex


Bartolomeu Dias Museum Complex


Maclear's Beacon


Sabi Sands Game Reserve
Sabi Sand Game Reserve is located adjacent to the Kruger National Park in the Lowveld of Mpumalanga, South Africa. Officially named Sabi Sand Wildtuin, the Sabi Sand Game Reserve consists of a group of private game reserves.

Fugitives Drift Lodge


Hluhluwe iMfolozi Park


Thonga Beach


Madikwe Game Reserve


Oudtshoorn


Safari Ostrich Farm


Grand Parade


Simon's Town


African Penguin and Seabird Sanctuary - Gansbaai


Pilanesberg National Park


Gold Reef City Theme Park


Kruger National Park


St George's Cathedral


Aquila Private Game Reserve


Ashia Cheetah Center


Sun City Resort


Kibale National Park


Robben Island


Maropeng Visitors Centre


Mandela's House


Kirstenbosch National Botanical Garden


V&A Waterfront


Two Oceans Aquarium


Cape of Good Hope


Iziko Bo Kaap Museum


Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa


District Six Museum


Boulders Penguin Colony


The Cape Wheel


Lion's Head


Bloubergstrand Beach


Groot Constantia-Trust


Chapman's Peak


Clifton 4th


Muizenberg Beach


Vergelegen Wine Estate


Norval Foundation


Green Point Park


Newlands Forest


World of Birds Wildlife Sanctuary & Monkey


Llandudno Beach


Durbanville Hills Winery


Cheetah Outreach

Zimbabwe
Zimbabwe is a prodigy of nature, boasting beautiful land of diversity filled with natural wonders. From low-slung semi-desserts to lush-green highlands strewn with forests and lakes, Zimbabwe is a lovely country owning breathtaking landscapes. Wrecked by wars and civil strife, it had a thundering exit from European colonialism in Africa. However, it is beginning to come out of that turmoil slowly but surely. It means Zimbabwe is starting to unfold its ravishing side filled with amazement, adventures, and attractions. Zimbabwe tourist attractions are alluring many intrepid vacationers with a promise of offering a different side of this fairyland country. While some tourists may be amazed by the world’s largest waterfall, Victoria falls, others like to go for trails of the highlands. There are a good number of places to visit in Zimbabwe that you should experience. Zimbabwe tourist spots range from Harare, Matobo National park, Nyanga national park, Hwange national park, Mutare, and many more. Zimbabwe is also known to have one of the largest populations of elephants which is majestic to watch. Imagine strolling around with elephants and feeling so tiny in front of them. Being an ideal location for wildlife, tourists will get to watch the Big Five(Leopard, Lion, Elephant, Rhino, and Buffalo). It is what attracts visitors to come here despite being a landlocked country. One of the notable Zimbabwe tourist attractions is the World Heritage-list archaeological sites. These stand in awe among the natural wonders that takes a tourist's breath away with their historic charm. Relishing the authentic safari in Zimbabwe is travelers’ favorite activity as they profoundly enjoy strolling around the bushes. With the friendly assistance of locals, safari trip has become safe. Arguably Zimbabwe’s national parks are the heart of this gorgeous country. Offering many Zimbabwe attractions, these national parks have so much to grasp. From Hwange national park to Matusadona park, these parks boast the country’s most stunning landscapes and impressive wildlife inhabitants. Lake Kariba, one of the biggest artificial lakes in the world, adds more beauty to your holidays in Zimbabwe. One can grab the paradisaical views of the sunset on this lake. Among the top Zimbabwe tourist spots, Victoria Falls transcends almost every other attraction here. It is perhaps the wonder of nature and unquestionably the most impressive site to watch. Being 108 meters high and 1.7 Km wide, Victoria Falls make an echoing sound and offers breathtaking views. That’s not it! The Victoria Falls National Park is one of the noted Zimbabwe tourist places surrounded by Baobab trees, baboons colonies, floating crocodiles, and giant elephants & buffaloes. It is one of the incredible experiences that goes beyond the falls itself. The best part of holidaying in Zimbabwe is that there are fewer crowds. This way, you can experience everything without being beaten up by the crowd around you. Once you visit this African gem, you will insist on visiting here again. If we talk about the Zimbabwe tourist attractions, those will be more than you can count on your fingers. We have listed a few of them below that you shouldn’t miss. Be it Lake Kariba, Victoria Falls Bridge, Nyanga National Park, Chinhoyi Caves, or whatnot. You will surely be going to miss being here. To know more such places to visit in Zimbabwe, skim through the list below.
Matobo National Park


Matobo Hills Lodge


Entrance Gate Nswatugi Caves


Victoria Falls
Victoria Falls is a waterfall on the Zambezi River in southern Africa, which provides habitat for several unique species of plants and animals. It is located on the border between Zambia and Zimbabwe and is considered to be one of the world's largest waterfalls due to its width of 1,708 m.

Hwange National Park


Victoria Falls Bridge


Mana Pools National Park


Great Zimbabwe National Monument


Chimanimani National Park


Nyanga National Park


Chinhoyi Caves


Lake Mutirikwi National Park


Lake Kariba


Zambezi National Park


National Gallery of Zimbabwe


Zambezi River Cruise

Mauritius
The enchanting beauty of Mauritius is impossible to neglect. This African gem has soul enhancing charm that captivates every traveler’s heart. Whether you travel with family, solo, or on a honeymoon, this vacationer’s paradise will offer you a marvelous time. There are many reasons for stepping on this piece of paradise; one of them is Mauritius tourist attractions. Another thing that magnetizes people toward this destination is its delightful weather. Its ideal climate remains the same all year round, whether you visit here in June or December. Mauritian cuisines are the other reasons why tourists choose this destination as their vacation spot. So, when you are in Mauritius, do feast your cravings with Asian, Indian, African, and French cuisines. Mauritius is an absolute blend of cultures, cuisines, warm people, wonders of nature, and ethnic communities. For travelers, there are many places to visit in Mauritius. From festivals to markets, adventurous activities, extraordinary beaches, and sweet cravings, there’s much more to experience. Mauritius attractions are rich with breathtaking waterfalls, lush green forests, rugged mountains, chalky sand beaches, novel wildlife, and crystal-clear turquoise lagoons. Mauritius does not only have natural attractions but also man-made attractions. All in all, it is a perfect vacation spot for breaking the monotonous life and travel routine. Among the top Mauritius tourist places to visit, the best ones are Ile Aux Cerfs, Flic En Flac Beach, Chamarel Waterfalls, Grand Bassin, and more.Belle Mare Plage beach in Mauritius is a treat for every sunrise lover. It is an ideal destination to watch a sunrise amid the lush green land. You can add this destination to your must-visit Mauritius tourist spots list. Many visitors from across the world come to Ile Aux Cerfs beach to spend a perfect weekend with their family and friends. They can relish several water sports here. If you are in Mauritius and didn’t visit Chamarel-colored earth, then your vacation is a waste. This place is an absolute must for everyone visiting Mauritius. Being one of the best Mauritius attractions, it has gained a copious amount of popularity. La Cuvette Beach is one of the most magnificent places to visit in Mauritius. It is famous for its dramatic vistas and mouthwatering seafood. To witness the breathtaking beauty of Mauritius, you must head to Black River Gorges National Park. Everywhere you look, you will find flora and fauna worth being photographed. Do you know? You can even experience a wildlife safari in Mauritius. It is one of the main Mauritius tourist attractions. All the wildlife safari buffs ride in an open jeep to explore the majestic African wilderness. Tamarind Waterfalls is another gem in Mauritius that offers a sight to behold. It is counted as one of the top Mauritius tourist spots to visit. A traveler can attempt different activities here, like hiking, cliff jumping, swimming, canyoneering, and bird-watching. If you want to nourish your history knowledge, Blue Penny Museum is the place you should visit. After getting such detailed information on Mauritius, you must be willing to transport yourself there. No worries! We got you covered. Dook Travel’s Mauritius tour packages are a delight to your vacation plan. Our packages have covered every Mauritius tourist place. If you plan to go on a Mauritius vacation, connect with us and get the best package at a pocket-friendly price.
le aux Cerfs
le aux Cerfs is a privately owned island near the east coast of Mauritius in the Flacq District. The island of Ile aux Cerfs lies off Trou dEau Douce in the largest lagoon of Mauritius and offers 87 hectares of luxuriant vegetation and preserved white sandy beaches.

Pereybre Swimming Beach
Backed by shady trees this bustling beach features swimming sunbathing kayaking & picnicking.

Grand Baie la Croisette
Imagine a place where pleasure meets the practical a place to indulge in ones favourite workout relax in a trendy coffee shop or enjoy a lunch break meet with friends to view the latest movie do your groceries.

Chamarel Waterfall View Point
The highest waterfall on Mauritius plunges more than 100 meters down against a scenic backdrop of forests and mountains.

Citadelle


Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam Botanical Garden


Black River Gorges National Park Visitors Centre
This 6574-hectacre natural reserve is filled with hiking trails to observe the indigenous forests and variety of wildlife.

Le Morne Brabant


Trou aux Cerfs
Measuring more than 984 feet in diameter this crater was formed as a result of volcanic activity millions of years ago.

Bras D'Eau National Park


Ile aux Cerfs


Village Hall


Port Louis


Trou Aux Beach
Trou-aux-Biches is a small town with a public beach on the northern coast of Mauritius in the district of Pamplemousses. According to the World Travel group the beach is one of the most beautiful on the island. They awarded it the Worlds Leading Beach Destination at the World Travel Award for 2011. Many tourist resorts and boutique hotels are situated near the beach such as the Trou aux Biches Resort & Spa. From Port Louis the M2 highway heads towards it with Trou-aux-Biches about 1.5 kilometers west from the end of M2. The airport and the town are connected by public bus.

Grand Bassin Sacred Lake
Grand Bassin, or Ganga Talao, is a sacred lake in the Savanne District of Mauritius, revered as a major Hindu pilgrimage site. Believed to be a replica of the Ganges River, it attracts thousands of devotees, especially during the Maha Shivaratri festival. Surrounded by lush greenery and volcanic mountains, the area features several temples and a towering statue of Lord Shiva, one of the tallest in Mauritius. Rich in biodiversity, Grand Bassin offers stunning natural beauty and a serene environment, making it a significant cultural and spiritual destination.

Kuanfu Ripe Black Tea Art Center & Museum
Kuan Fu Tea Factory, located in Port Louis, Mauritius, is famous for its high-quality Ripe Black Tea. Established in 1967 as part of the Dubreuil tea legacy, the factory employs a traditional 26-step process for tea production, including a year-long fermentation. This results in a tea rich in polyphenols and low in caffeine, making it a healthy choice for tea lovers.
Kenya
Kenya is the wild heart of Africa, known for its dramatic landscapes, awe-inspiring wildlife, welcoming people, and quaint beaches. For most people, Kenya and Safari go hand-in-hand. It is known as the home of Safaris. Watching wildlife dazzling in front of you will give you a thrilling experience. Imagine a lion walking along your drive, an elephant sneaking his nose toward you, and a giraffe getting friendly with you. Who doesn’t want to add this trail to their Kenya Attractions? Visit Maasai Mara to watch the Great Migration, where you can see throngs of wildebeest thundering across the savanna. Marvel at Lake Nakuru and watch thousands of flamingos flocking. There are not one or two reasons for visiting Kenya, but too many. From crystal clear beaches to the cosmopolitan bustle of Nairobi to Rift valley and the shores of Lake Naivasha, Kenya Tourist Attractions are every traveler’s dream to see. Maasai Mara, the world-famous wildlife reserve, is one of the top Kenya tourist spots. If you want to witness the spectacle of the animal kingdom, you need to pin the Maasai Mara at the top of your bucket list experiences. Going on a boat safari at Lake Naivasha will mesmerize your soul with the views of blue water and the beautiful species of nature. From eagles to hippos and all sorts of birds, you can easily watch them on your lake safari. If you get exhausted with all the places to visit in Kenya, you can spend quaint time on Diani beach. It is one of the best places in the country where you can just relax, go for a swim at sunrise, and relish all the delicious seafood. To capture the view of the snow-cloaked peaks of Mount Kenya, you can climb through the valleys. Also, hike down the Ol Njorowa Gorge to experience a fun and engaging time. Lake Victoria is one of the best Kenya Tourist Places to have peace amidst the tranquil environment. One can explore the extensive aquatic life here, which includes African helmeted turtles, 500 fish species, and more. Nairobi, the bustling capital of Kenya, is one of the evocative and exciting holiday destinations. This metropolis capital has plenty of exciting things to do before you head home. From Nairobi National park to Nairobi National museum to beautiful Ngong Hills to the famous railway museum and Karura Forest Reserve, there are numerous places to visit in Nairobi. One of the popular Nairobi Attractions is the safari walk. The walking trails will satiate the soul of an animal lover. Kenya houses innumerable adventures that captivate every traveler’s attention at best. From trekking Mount Kenya to hot air ballooning over Maasai Mara and snorkeling on the azure beaches of the Indian Ocean, Kenya is an absolute stunner. If you are heading to Kenya and wondering what activities you can indulge in, then look at all the attractions we have shared on this page. We have added all the famous Kenya Tourist Attractions, which are popular among travelers of all kinds. Be it Amboseli National Reserve, Lake Victoria, Manda Bay, Mombasa, The Great Rift Valley, and The Nairobi Arboretum. You will love Kenya for everything it has to offer. Are you wondering where to begin? Skim through each destination one by one.
Maasai Mara National Reserve


Lewa Wildlife Conservancy


Tsavo National Park


Rhino Viewing Platform - Ngulia Rhino Sanctuary - Tsavo Trust


Amboseli National Reserve
Amboseli National Park is in southern Kenya. It’s known for its large elephant herds and views of immense Mount Kilimanjaro, across the border in Tanzania.

Lake Nakuru National Park
Lake Nakuru is one of the Rift Valley lakes at an elevation of 1,754 m above sea level. It lies to the south of Nakuru, in the rift valley of Kenya and is protected by Lake Nakuru National Park.

Masai Mara National Reserve


Masai Mara National Reserve


Amboseli National Park


Nairobi National Park


Aberdare National Park


Samburu National Reserve


Lamu Island


Buffalo Springs National Reserve


Mount Kenya National Park


Hells Gate National Park


Lake Nakuru National Park


Lake Naivasha


Lake Victoria


Malindi


Mombasa


Meru National Park


Shimba Hills National Reserve


Kenya National Museum Society


Haller Park


The Nairobi Arboretum


Uhuru Park


Manda Bay


Diani Beach


Giraffe Centre


The Great Rift Valley


Karen Blixen Museum


Samburu Trails


Bomas Of Kenya

Tanzania
Tanzania, the largest East African country, is a loved tourist destination offering exotic wildlife, rich culture, beautiful natural parks, and many natural attractions. While most people visit Tanzania for its safaris and wildlife, some tourists love to hike Mount Kilimanjaro.  It is the home of Mount Kilimanjaro, the highest peak in Africa, which is 5,895m long. Unlike the other Tanzania tourist attractions, travelers don’t visit Mount Kilimanjaro National Park for the wildlife but to grab a chance to see the snow-capped Kilimanjaro Mountain. Many tourists climb and summit the mountain to experience the majestic beauty from the close. Apart from this, there are numerous other places to visit in Tanzania that can satiate your adventurous heart. Be it Mnemba Island, Lake Tanganyika, Ngorongoro Conservation Area, Zanzibar beaches, Mafia Island, and more. You will get tempted to see all these Tanzania attractions. Moreover, Tanzania houses some of the most varied and unique landscapes that one will ever see. From grasslands to woodlands to mountain peaks to rock formations and whatnot, there’s no doubt why Tanzania is one of the best tourist countries. Most Tanzania tourist spots are National Parks. These parks cover 30% of Tanzania, making it a quintessential destination to witness some of the best national parks in the world. One of the most beloved parks is Serengeti National Park which is abode to more than one million species of large mammals. The Serengeti National Park is a World Heritage Site, which is also named as 7th wonder of the world. Tanzania’s Lake Tanganyika is the second largest lake in the world after Lake Baikal in Siberia. You will be surprised to know that it is so big that it belongs to four countries; Tanzania, Burundi, Zambia, and Congo. It is one of the best Tanzania tourist places where you can have a serene vacation among the vast expanses, quiet shorelines, and lust-green surroundings. Besides, Ngorongoro Conservation is also one of the Tanzania tourist attractions that add adventure to your trip. Here you can experience safari, hiking, climbing, camping, and wildlife at its best. If you love snorkeling, you must head to Mafia Island. It draws the attention of thousands of snorkelers from across the world. Moreover, Mafia Island is also an enchanting location for deep-sea fishing. Another one of the unspoiled and untouched places to visit in Tanzania is Katavi National Park. This national park is rich in landscapes and wildlife, which makes it a perfect place to explore. Lake Victoria is another jewel of Tanzania. Burdened by Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania, it is the source of the White Nile. Around Lake Victoria, you can relish Bird watching, fishing trips, boat trips, and hikes. Zanzibar, a holiday destination, is one of the attractive Tanzania tourist spots known for its pristine beaches. The historical Stone Town is located in the heart of Zanzibar. From sky-high snowy peaks to palm-fringed Indian Ocean Islands, Tanzania simply has it all.If you are convinced to spend your holidays in Tanzania, you should skim through our Tanzania attractions page to make an adventuring bucket list. You will find almost every noted place to visit in Tanzania here. From Pemba Island to Udzungwa Mountains National Park to Saadani National Park to Zanzibar beaches and whatnot, Tanzania boasts some of the best attractions. So, why are you waiting? Book with us and explore Africa’s marvel, Tanzania.
Serengeti National Park


Lake Victoria
Lake Victoria is one of the African Great Lakes. The lake was renamed after Queen Victoria in the reports of the explorer John Hanning Speke, the first Briton to document it. Speke accomplished this in 1858, while on an expedition with Richard Francis Burton to locate the source of the Nile River.

Lake Manyara National Park


Ngorongoro Conservation Area
The Ngorongoro Conservation Area is a protected area and a UNESCO World Heritage Site located in Ngorongoro District 180 km west of Arusha City in the Arusha Region within the Crater Highlands geological area of northern Tanzania. The area is named after Ngorongoro Crater a large volcanic caldera within the area. The conservation area is administered by the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority an arm of the Tanzanian government and its boundaries follow the boundary of the Ngorongoro District in the Arusha Region. The western portion of the park abuts the Serengeti National Park and the area comprising the two parks and Kenyas Maasai Mara game reserve is home to the Great Migration a massive annual migration of millions of wildebeest zebras gazelles and other animals.

Olduvai Gorge Museum
The Olduvai Gorge Museum is located in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area in Northern Tanzania on the edge of the Olduvai Gorge. The museum was founded by Mary Leakey and is now under the jurisdiction of the Tanzanian governments Department of Cultural Antiquities and is managed by the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority. It is a museum dedicated to the appreciation and understanding of the Olduvai Gorge and Laetoli fossil sites.

Tarangire National Park


Old Fort of Zanzibar
The Old Fort also known as the Arab Fort and by other names is a fortification located in Stone Town the capital of Zanzibar. It is the oldest building and a major visitor attraction of Stone Town. It is located on the main seafront adjacent to another landmark building of the city the House of Wonders and facing the Forodhani Gardens. The fort is essentially a square of high brown walls with merlons protecting an inner courtyard. In the courtyard there are some remnants of earlier buildings including those of a Portuguese church and another Omani fortification.

Jozani Forest
The Jozani Chwaka Bay National Park is a 50 km national park in Tanzania located on the island of Zanzibar. It is the only national park in Zanzibar. The Zanzibar red colobus Procolobus kirkii found in the park a rainforest species is also known as Kirks red colobus named after Sir John Kirk the British Resident of Zanzibar who had first brought it to the attention of zoological science. It is now adopted as the flagship species for conservation in Zanzibar from the mid-1990s. Other species of fauna found in the park are the Sykes monkey bush babies more than 50 species of butterflies and 40 species of birds.[3] The nocturnal Zanzibar tree hyrax which has four toes on its front feet and three on its back is said to be the first hyrax species that has acclimatized to the forest. As part of the tourism circuit the park attracts 10% of the over 100000 visitors to Zanzibar every year. Wildlife attractions of Zanzibar also include dolphins apart from deep sea fishing for tuna marlin and sharks.

Stone Town
Stonetown of Zanzibar also known as Mji Mkongwe is the old part of Zanzibar City the main city of Zanzibar in Tanzania. The newer portion of the city is known as Ngambo Swahili for the other side. Stone Town is located on the western coast of Unguja the main island of the Zanzibar Archipelago.

Old Dispensary
The Old Dispensary also known as Ithnashiri Dispensary is a historical building in Stone Town Zanzibar. It is located on the seafront on Mizingani Road halfway between the Palace Museum and the harbor. It owes its name to the fact that it served as a dispensary in the first half of the 20th century. The Dispensary is one of the most finely decorated buildings of Stone Town and a symbol of the multi-cultural architecture and heritage of the city. Its wooden carved balconies with stained glass decorations are of Indian influence the main structure is built with traditional Zanzibari coral rag and limestone but covered with stucco adornments of European neo-classical taste. The inside of the building is just as sophisticated with a covered courtyard and carved bridges connecting the floors.

Mount Kilimanjaro National Park


Zanzibar Beaches


Arusha National Park


Ruaha National Park


Selous Game Reserve


Olduvai Gorge


Mount Meru


Pemba Island


Mafia Island


Matema Beach


Old fort


Quality Center Mall


Katavi National Park


Mikumi National Park


Udzungwa Mountains National Park


Saadani National Park


Selous Mapumziko Lodge


Mahale Mountain National Park


Changu Island


Nungwi Beach

Mozambique
The Southern African wonder, Mozambique, has many touristic draws. Mozambique beckons tourists with its vast coastline & swaying palms, its beautiful traditions, its rich cultures, its pleasant vibe, and endless adventures. This enigmatic southeast African country captivates tourists worldwide and offers so much to explore. The Mozambique tourist attractions are innumerable, be it long, dune-fringed beaches, colonial-style architecture, fascinating culture, and pulsating nightlife. With over 2500 km of preserved beaches, Mozambique is an ideal destination for beach lovers. Along the coastline, one can enjoy the turquoise waters abounding in shoals of colorful fish and corals. That’s not it, remote archipelagos in the north, beating surf in the south, and graceful yachts with swirling sails add more adventure to it. Famous for its fresh and relishing seafood, one can readily feel the Portuguese influence in its dishes. As you move to the northern region, you will find more Mozambique tourist spots filled with famed for their awe-inspiring crafts, including beautiful sculptures produced by the Makondo people. Lots of Mozambique’s artwork depicts customary beliefs, the struggle for independence, and the famous civil war. Besides all the places to visit in Mozambique, you can enjoy the traditional music, especially the Marimba bands. Mozambique’s dazzling capital is a pulse of life, pounding with jazz and flavored with the taste of Portuguese charm. After the colonial lessons, Maputo has reclaimed its charm, and now the town is bursting with vibrant bazaars, bars, and a mouthwatering fusion of Arabic and Keralan food in eateries. One of the Mozambique tourist places that many travelers visit is Gorongosa National Park. The dry and vast landscapes of Gorongosa National Park engage the heart of every tourist. Head straight to this national park to take a close view of bouncing bushbuck, crowned cranes, elephant herds, wild warthogs, and more. The Island of Mozambique is another one of the ethereal places to visit in Mozambique. This speck of land nestled across the shimmering waters of the Indian Ocean was once the epicenter of Portuguese. Mozambique Island is now a UNESCO World Heritage Site. If you want to relax after an exhausting adventure, visit the secluded beaches of Zongoene. Besides, you can also take romantic sailing trips at this lover’s paradise. From lazy canoe rides to quad biking in the forest to fishing and enjoying sundowner cruises, there are so many things to do on the Zongoene beaches. Tofo is one of the interesting Mozambique attractions where you can indulge in Ocean safari in Tofo. The people of Tofo, low-key eateries, guesthouses, shops, and bustling markets are what make this place attractive to travelers. Not too many people know about Mozambique Cinhamapere hill. It is a sacred rock-art site. It is one of the quiet Mozambique tourist spots where you barely find any other tourists. The history of Inhambane will captivate your attention in a shell. Long ago, this place attracted traders from across the Arabic Sea and the Indian Ocean. Discovering Mozambique attractions is not easy, but it is inexhaustibly rewarding. You just need to bring some patience, and you will jump in for the journey of a lifetime. If you are planning to explore and stroll through the best places to visit in Mozambique, you must glance at the attractions mentioned below. Each of these Mozambique tourist attractions is the finest of all out there. Now, don’t wait and plan your Mozambique vacation with us.
Bazaruto Archipelago
The Bazaruto Archipelago is a group of 6 islands off the coast of southern Mozambique. They lie within Bazaruto National Park and are known for their white-sand beaches. Bazaruto, with sand dunes, is the largest island. Coral reefs around Magaruque and Santa Carolina islands protect rare marine animals, like dugongs. The wetlands, forests and grasslands of Benguerra Island interior are home to many bird species.

Katavi National Park


Island of Mozambique


Gorongosa National Park


Quirimbas National Park


Benguerra Island


Medjumbe Island


Ponta do Ouro


Inhaca Island


Niassa Reserve


Limpopo National Park


Maputo


Tunduru Botanical Gardens


Maputo Central Train Station


Museum of Natural History


Fortress of Maputo


Museu de Historia Natural


PRAIA DO WIMBE


Ibo Island


Barra Beach


Macaneta Beach


Portuguese Island


Fortaleza de Sao Sebastao


Kaya Kweru Resort


Santa Carolina Island


Saint Anthony Catholic Church

Madagascar
Madagascar, the fourth largest island in the world, is a place of great wonders. Situated on the eastern coast of Africa in the Indian Ocean, Madagascar houses thousands of plant and animal species found nowhere else in the world. Because of its natural diversity, it is known as the eighth continent. A devotion to ancestry and tradition pervades the national culture, a reverence that is seen in the country’s architecture, social manners, and art. You must tour the Madagascar attractions to discover its natural, cultural, and historical diversity. From Ranomafana National Park to Masoala National Park to Ifaty to Avenue of Baobabs and Nosy Be, there’s so much to unearth in Madagascar. When someone says “Madagascar”, it creates a picture of a place embellished with pristine beaches, bulging-eyed golden lemurs, lush-green rainforests, and medieval French colonies. Madagascar tourist attractions have something for everyone. Beach lovers can find an archipelago of white sand beaches, wildlife lovers can explore the bushy rainforests, and history admirers can witness the UNESCO heritage sights on this island. Unquestionably, it is a “Megadiverse” country for a reason. From National parks, ancient burial grounds, and royal palaces, Madagascar is undeniably a land of wonder and mystique. Antananarivo, the buzzy capital city, is a beautiful blend of culture and traditions. It is settled on the slopes of neighboring mountains at an altitude of 1400m. This capital city is the oldest part of Madagascar, which still showcases French colonialism and Parisian architecture. It is one of the best places to visit in Madagascar, where tourists admire the ancient wonders.Avenue of the Baobabs, one of the attractive Madagascar tourist spots, is the splendor of nature. These tall Baobab trees on a dirt road boast unusual and raw beauty that draws the attention of many tourists. That’s why tourists consider it one of the top places to visit in Madagascar. As you go further into the wild, you will find Ranomafana National Park, which spreads across an area of 400 Km. sq. This park houses endangered species of golden bamboo lemur. Another famous national park is Masoala. It covers nearly 250 miles of rainforest, including three marine parks. Besides the ten species of lemur, it is also home to an array of birds and reptiles, including the Tomato frog. It is one of the notable Madagascar tourist places, where a large number of visitors come every year. Ifaty, the fishing village in Southwest Madagascar, is a majestic location for people who seek tranquility. This Madagascar tourist attraction is ideal for diving, snorkeling, and fishing. How can someone forget to visit Nosy Be? The small Island of Nosy Be is one of the premier Madagascar tourist spots that attract thousands of travelers around the year. Although it doesn’t have picture-perfect beaches, they do win travelers with its pristine turquoise water and excellent seafood cafes. Isalo National Park is also one of the noteworthy places to visit in Madagascar. Famous for its dramatic landscapes, grassland, steep canyons, and sandstone formations, Isalo captivates every tourist’s heart. If your adventurous soul is seeking a thrill, plan a holiday in Madagascar. We are sure you will fall in love with this wondrous African country. From Amber National Park to Nosy Be to Tsingy De Bemaraha National Park to Tsara Komba Lodge to Lemur Park and Nosy Ambariovato, stroll through the finest tourist places in Madagascar.
Amber national park


Nosy Ambariovato


Tsara Komba Lodge


Mandrare


Manafiafy Beach & Rainforest Lodge


Antananarivo


Isalo National Park


Tsingy De Bemaraha National Park


Andasibe Mantadia National Park


Ranomafana National Park


Ile Sainte Marie


Zahamena National Park


Masoala National Park


Royal Hill of Ambohimanga


Ifaty


Avenue of the Baobabs


Nosy Be


Nosy Sakatia


Lemur Park


Lemuria Land


Reserva Analamazoatra

Mali

Remnants of Mamelon
The mamelon of Sikasso is a mamelon 30 meters high and 461 meters in circumference located in the heart of Sikasso. It was built in the 1880s by the king of Kenedougou Tieba Traore for the kings to have their seats there. At its summit there is a replica of a fortified multistory structure that served as a place of work and as a traditional court which was destroyed when Sikasso was conquered by the French colonizers. The site had traditionally been considered very important to local people. It was believed to be home to spirits and has long been used as a gathering place where the court was held guests were received and leaders observed the surrounding territory from the height.

Missirikoro Grotto
The Village of Missirikoro 12km southwest of Sikasso owes its name to the nearby grotto Fara Missiri. This Natural grotto complete with stalactites and stalagmites reaches a height of 50-80m and has traditionally been used as a place of worship and sacrifice for both Muslims and animists. The cave walls are curving and the light from the opening high above flows down them in a river of shadow.

Grand Mosque Djenne
The Great Mosque of Djenn is a large brick or adobe building in the Sudano-Sahelian architectural style. The mosque is located in the city of Djenne Mali on the flood plain of the Bani River. The first mosque on the site was built around the 13th century but the current structure dates from 1907.
Morocco
Morocco is a unique tourist destination with a range of attractions and activities. From rich culture to beautiful landscapes, to religion, warm & welcoming people, exotic food, vibrant nightlife, and bustling shopping avenues, it captivates the soul of every wanderer. Morocco is a modern city, but it still embraces its four imperial cities with their historical significance. One of the imperial cities in Morocco is known as the Red City. It is Marrakech. Famous for numerous souks, ancient places, and the old medina, Marrakech is a stunning imperial city to explore. The best part of Morocco is that one can access the vast and arid Sahara Dessert from several places. There are not one or two or three but many places to visit in Morocco. From its gorgeous beaches, dramatic mountain ranges, diverse cultural influences, and multilingual Moroccan people, this north African country is an overwhelming delight. Morocco tourist attractions extend to Chefchaouen, Erg Chebbi’s Dunes, Ait Ben Haddou, Essaouira, Volubilis, and more. All these Morocco attractions depict the reason for the rising number of tourists, which has doubled in recent years.  Very few people know that Morocco has four imperial cities; Rabat, Meknes, Marrakesh, and Fez. The aura of these UNESCO-listed cities is beyond words. It always enchants travelers across the world. At every turn of these cities, you will find history. From mosques to tombs to arches streets, everything about them is captivating. Morocco tourist places are countless. It makes it one of the most diverse places in the world. Whenever you are in Morocco, your eyes will be flooded with eye-catching architecture standing tall on the colorful street corners. Maze-like patterns on the fountain, palaces, Riads, Madrasas, Kasbahs, pottery, and ceramic tiles will show you the beauty of Morocco’s amazing architecture. Sahara Dessert, one of the most popular Morocco tourist spots, awaits the arrival of travelers from across the world. As you stroll around the streets of Morocco, you will be tempted by the artistic antiques, beautiful carpets, mouth-watering spices, attractive Aladdin-like lamps, and other local crafts. One of Morocco tourist attractions is the Atlas Mountains. It escalates up to 3200m at its highest peak, offering picture-perfect slopes for skiers of all levels. Snow-capped mountains are a rare attraction in Africa, but it is one of the elite experiences you will get. Surrounding by the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea, Morocco’s coastline is one of the best in the world. These spotless white beaches are among the favorite Morocco tourist spots. For them, it is the best off-beat place to cool off from the bustling city. Once you visit this country, you will not only be welcomed by the warm sun but also by the remarkable hospitality of the locals. All in All, everything about Morocco is delightful and captivating. If you want to experience the best of Morocco tourist attractions, you need to visit the country at least once. Among the best innumerable places to visit in Morocco, we have enlisted a few of them below. All these Morocco attractions draw a traveler’s attention with delicious food, affordability, impressive architecture, and much more. From Ouarzazate to Essaouira, every corner of Morocco is filled with awe-inspiring places to visit. Morocco awaits your visit with open arms, mouthwatering cuisines, delightful attractions, and much more.
Andalusian Mosque


Koutoubia Minaret


Bahia Palace


Agafay Desert


Mohammed V Square


Royal Palace


Hassan II Mosque


United Nations Square


Mausoleum of Mohammed V


Mellah


Marinid Tombs
The Marinid Tombs or Merenid Tombs are a set of ruined monumental tombs on a hill above and north of Fes al-Bali the old city of Fez Morocco. They were originally a royal necropolis for the Marinid dynasty which ruled over Morocco in the 13th to 15th centuries. Today they are a popular lookout point over the historic city. There is sparse information available on the site and its history. However the ruined tombs are attributed to the 14th century during the Marinid dynasty hence their name.

The Royal Palace Fes
The Royal Palace or Dar al-Makhzen is the palace of the King of Morocco in the city of Fez Morocco. Its original foundation dates back to the foundation of Fes el-Jdid the royal citadel of the Marinid dynasty in 1276 CE. Most of the palace today dates from the Alawi era. The vast grounds are home to multiple private structures patios and gardens but historically also included administrative offices and government tribunals. Today the most publicly visible parts of the palace are its main entrances at the Old Mechouar and the highly ornate 20th-century gates at Place des Alaouites near the Mellah.

Bab Boujloud
Bab Bou Jeloud is an ornate city gate in Fes el Bali the old city of Fez Morocco. The current gate was built by the French colonial administration in 1913 to serve as the grand entrance to the old city. The name Bou Jeloud dates from well before the existence of the current gate. By one account the name is a vernacular corruption of the expression Abu al- Junud referring to a parade ground or military square in this case the large square known as Place Bou Jeloud just west of the gate.

Marrakesh Medina


Meknes


Asilah


Essaouira


Chefchaouen


Rabat


Volubilis


Casablanca


Ouarzazate


Tinghir

Saudi Arabia

Old Gold Market


Suliman Al Faqih


Al Bada'a


Sulaiman Al Habib Hospital


Jeddah


Al Shareef Museum

Gibraltar
United States
The United States of America is one of the most dynamic tourist destinations. Being one of the popular tourist destinations, it stays on almost every traveler’s bucket list. There’s so much to explore and experience. There are countless United States tourist attractions, from the Grand Canyon to Niagara Falls, the White House, the Statue of Liberty, Waikiki, and more. You can witness the world’s most spectacular scenery and most remarkable icons on the planet. The United States is an incredibly diverse country where people from different cultures, races, and religions live together. So, you will get to witness a multicultural way of living. Not just attractions, there are also many United States tourist places that you can visit and discover. From New York City to Washington to Seattle to San Francisco to Las Vegas and more, the United States has many dazzling places to explore. America houses plenty of museums that are impressive and interesting. With over 35,000 museums, United States attractions are endless if you see. Whether it is historical monuments or science centers, you will experience excellence. Not to mention, there are countless hidden gems that you must visit. Even the smallest town in the United States has just as much to offer as New York and Seattle. Therefore, if you are here, make sure to explore as many United States tourist spots as possible. The United States is home to many things- delicious food, serene landscapes, iconic landmarks, theme parks, and more. Grand Canyon, the world’s must-see natural attraction, is one of the most places to visit in the United States. Located in Northern Arizona, Grand Canyon draws the attention of many tourists. The postcard-perfect landscapes of this place are unparalleled. Niagara Falls is one of the most iconic United States tourist attractions around the world. Nestled along the Canada-US border, Niagara Falls creates an incredible panoramic view. Summer is the perfect time to visit Niagara Falls when the weather is pleasant. Yosemite National Park is the most loved park in America. For nature lovers, Yosemite National Park is one of the best places to visit in the United States. Besides encountering famous sites, you can hike, climb, walk, or do horseback riding. Golden Gate Bridge is the iconic landmark of America. Bending across San Francisco Bay, the Golden Gate Bridge is one of the most remarkable United States attractions since 1930. the Bridge boasts an aesthetically pleasing portrait, contrasting with the crystal blue water. It looks more majestic at night. Time Square is another one of the most-visited United States tourist spots. It remains crowded throughout the year. However, it gets more crowded on New Year’s Eve when the countdown begins for the New Year. No matter what you seek to experience in the United States, you will get to witness everything. From rich history to architectural brilliance to natural scenery to majestic museums to bustling cities to buzzing streets and more, there’s nothing you cannot experience. If you are planning to fly to the United States, check out Dook International’s tour packages. Dook has enticing travel packages you can personalize as per your travel preferences. Our United States holiday packages include every destination and attraction that you must visit on your trip. So, pack your stuff and get ready for the adventure of all time.
Athabasca Falls


Mount Robson

Slovakia
Slovakia is a land of magical castles, soaring mountain peaks, unique traditions, rich history, bustling cities, and historic architecture. There are numerous popular places to visit in Slovakia. From Bratislava Castle to St Martin’s Cathedral, Grassalkovich Palace, Old Town Hall, and Michael’s Gate, Slovakia unleashes its treasures in front of you. Surrounded by five countries, Austria, Poland, Hungary, Czech, and Ukraine, Slovakia is a delight to explore. Known for its stunning national parks, picturesque hiking trails, and hundreds of caves, Slovakia is filled with many tourist attractions. Whether you are a history buff, food lover, thrill seeker, or nature enthusiast, you will be blessed with the best. Besides Slovakia tourist places, there are many unique folk traditions that you can encounter. As a mountainous country, Slovakia provides endless opportunities to go on hiking. The hiking trails in Slovakia are one of a kind that boasts unbelievably vast vistas. Tourists can even enjoy many Slovakia tourist spots through cycling tours. Cyclists can relish the treats of nature and enjoy pleasant weather throughout the way. The well-protected buildings of several cities are one of the spectacular Slovakia attractions. It offers sightseeing opportunities and plenty of nightlife scenes. Everywhere you look, you will find castles. Castles are one of the prime Slovakia tourist attractions that draw the attention of many visitors. No matter what you seek in this country- cuisines, sightseeing, mountains, or history, you will get everything in Slovakia. As Slovakia is home to over 100 castles, you will find all the fairy-tale castles from movies here. These castles are one of the most magnificent Slovakia tourist attractions. From Bojnice Castle to neo-Gothic Orava Castle, Devin Castle, and many more, there are so many incredible castles waiting for you to be uncovered. If you love skiing, Slovakia has a gift for you. Many breathtaking ski resorts offer skiing opportunities for sports aficionados. Alpine skiing is famous in Slovakia that captivates the attention of many tourists. Another one of the popular Slovakia attractions is the open-air museums. Some famous open-air museums are the Ethnographic Natural Exposition, the Museum of Folk Architecture, the Museum of the Orava Village, and the Museum of the Slovak Village. Slovak National Park is one of the serene places to visit in Slovakia. This national park tops the list of the most popular places to visit. There are 19 nature reserves, over 350 caves, and hundreds of canyons & gorges within this national park. If you get bored of visiting all the places, you can take a long stroll around the streets of Bratislava. A walk to this city will delight the heart of history, art, food, and photography lovers. As you go ahead on this trip, you will witness the breathtaking Ice Cave named Dobsinska. This Ice Cave is a UNESCO Heritage Site in Slovakia. Overall, a vacation to Slovakia is worth taking. If you decide to visit Slovakia, Dook has some exciting offers for you. We have Slovakia tour packages that you can choose and customize as per your choice. These travel packages are budget-friendly and cater to your travel needs. Our packages include all the tourist attractions in Slovakia that can make your vacation to this country more memorable. So, hurry up and book your holiday with Dook.
Bratislava Castle


Hotel St. Martiner Castell


Michaels Gate


Hrad Devn


Primatial Palace

Hungary
Hungary, a landlocked country in Central Europe, is a magnificent destination with quaint villages, picture-postcard scenery, romantic architecture, extraordinary caves, stunning lakes, and more. The glittering capital of Hungary - Budapest - is one of the primary reasons why most tourists fly to this beautiful destination. This central European country elicits a strong sense of history and tradition at every turn. From Hungary tourist attractions to mouthwatering food, tons of natural beauty, local wines, and folk culture, there’s always something new to explore. Hungary’s countryside has one of the most beautiful landscapes that you cannot find anywhere else in Europe. If you are in Hungary, you will never be away from dramatic mountains and lakes, dazzling river scenes, and lush green valleys. All of these offer the best Hungary tourist spots to roam around the country. Besides, you will get opportunities to indulge in adventure sports like hiking, climbing, biking, camping, etc. The best part about Hungary is that you don’t need to choose the right season to visit because the weather is delightful all year round. Apart from visiting famous Hungary tourist places, you can relax and rejuvenate yourself at historic spas. From taking a bath in healing waters to longer stays in spa resorts, it offers a peaceful holiday experience to tourists. With the perfect blend of expansive scenery that transports you to a long-gone era and the best urban cities, Hungary is a top-notch tourist destination. Buda Castle is one of the top Hungary attractions located in the Hungarian capital of Budapest. This castle is preferably known as the “Paris of the East” because of its spectacular beauty. The Danube River is another majestic Hungary tourist attraction. It flows through Hungary from north to south, and passes through Budapest, splitting the city in two. From the freedom bridge, one can witness the best sunset views of the Danube river. It is one of the favorite spots of tourists who are often seen watching the spectacular sunset. If you are visiting Budapest, you cannot return without casting a view on the magnificent Hungarian Parliament building. It is one of the top Hungary tourist spots. There is no reason that you won’t be awestruck by its luxurious architecture and proportions when viewed from Castle hill on the bank of the Danube river. One of the superb places to visit in Hungary is the world-class Hungarian Open Air Museum. Established over 50 years ago, the open-air museum has become one of the significant Hungary attractions. Lake Balaton is Europe’s largest freshwater lake which is so big that sometimes it is referred to as the “Hungarian Sea”. To get the best views over Budapest, you must go to the Fisherman’s Bastion. It is a popular spot to get some Instagram-worthy photos from here. If you want to take the memory of your vacation home, you can go shopping in Great Market Hall. There you can find ideal presents for your family and friends. Overall, Hungary is a good place to spend a quiet vacation. Planning a trip to Hungary? You need to look at Dook’s tour packages. We offer a fulfilling vacation in Hungary at affordable prices. We have covered almost every prominent attraction in Hungary to give you a feel of everything. So, what are you waiting for? Grab the best tour package and start vacationing in Hungary.
Hungarian Parliament Building


House of Terror


Hungarian State Opera


Budapest Castle Hill Funicular


Parliament Building


St. Stephens Basilica

Ireland
Ireland is a beautiful island with scene-stealing natural beauty and a multitude of things to do. It is a country of contrasts. Its ocean coastline has lofty cliffs, fine beaches, historic villages, medieval castles, and gracefully beautiful islands where locals nurture ancient traditions. From the gobsmacked cliffs of Moher to twinkling Grafton Street of Dublin, Ireland is the dream destination of many globetrotters. With full of iconic sights, there are so many best places to visit in Ireland that you should explore. Ireland is very popular among all the GOT (Game of Thrones) fans because the famous show was filmed here. Most tourists have started visiting this destination to discover the show’s filming locations. Besides, numerous Ireland tourist attractions captivate the heart of many travelers. Whether you want to spend time seeking Ireland’s unending outdoor activities or learn about the country’s most famous artist's work, you will get a fulfilling experience. Apart from pretty landscapes and incredible places to see, there are exciting outdoor adventures. In addition to beautiful Ireland tourist places to visit, you can even stay in a castle. From the Lough Cutra Castle to miniature medieval castles, you can live your dream of staying in a castle. Ireland tourist spots are packed with spectacular prehistoric sites. Ireland’s festivals, music, and dance are another reason why most travelers explore the traditional side of this beautiful nation. The Cliffs of Moher is one of the most unique Ireland tourist attractions that cannot be described in words. The magnificent cliffs of Moher offer awe-inspiring views of the entire island. Another one of the majestic places to visit in Ireland is the Grafton Streets of Dublin. Grafton Street is a perfect place to meander as it is always filled with performance artists, flower-sellers, and buskers. Ireland’s Trinity College in Dublin is the oldest university and the country’s ancient treasure. Many tourists come here for a quick and quiet stroll. This college has often been the setting for several novels, urban legends, and films. The Ring of Kerry is Ireland’s most panoramic route. While taking this journey, you will get to see jaw-dropping Atlantic Ocean views, wild sweeping mountains, stunning islands, and many picturesque villages. Undeniably, it is one of the most breathtaking Ireland tourist spots. The Rock of Cashel is the most visited ancient site in Ireland. Even Queen Elizabeth II visited this during her official tour in 2011. Another famous Ireland attraction is the National Museum of Ireland. Interestingly, it is a collection of museums. It is one of the unparalleled Ireland Tourist places where you can expect to find intriguing exhibits on everything, from Irish folk life to Antiquities to Celtic art. Torc Waterfall is one of the most spectacular sights you will ever see. Located in the heart of Killarney National Park, this 20-meter-long waterfall is one of the major attractions in the Ring of Kerry. You can unearth all these handpicked locations in Ireland with Dook.Check out Dook’s Ireland tour packages for a more prosperous vacation, and you will get everything intact. Our packages include every attraction, from Dublin Castle to Dublin Zoo, The Latin Quarter, Galway Cathedral, and more. We will ensure you have the best time in Ireland with your family, friends, or loved ones. Now, don’t wait and pack your suitcase.
St Patrick's Cathedral


St Stephen's Green


Phoenix Park


Dublin Zoo


National Museum of Ireland - Archaeology


Guinness Storehouse


Dublin Castle


National Gallery of Ireland


The National Wax Museum Plus


The Temple Bar Pub


Galway Cathedral


Galway City Museum


Spanish Arch


Corrib Princess


Lynch's Castle


The Latin Quarter

Isle of Man

Grove Museum

Colombia
Colombia is a budding holiday destination for so many travelers around the world. Located in South America, Colombia has been becoming the choice of every tourist. With contrasting landscapes, idyllic Caribbean isles, delightful colonial towns, forest-clad mountains, lush green coffee plantations, and bustling nightlife- you can spend months exploring every corner of Colombia. Many Colombia tourist attractions are there that draw most travelers' attention. Colombia is a marvelous place, from snow-capped Andean mountains to tropical Amazon jungles, turquoise Caribbean beaches, and sun-kissed deserts. One of the main Colombia attractions for tourists is its natural beauty. From its picturesque scenery to dense rainforests, impressive beaches, soaring mountains, and expansive deserts, this place is a treat for the nature lover. To satiate your nature’s quest, you can head to the Amazon rainforest for adventure. Travelers can also hike through the Cocora Valley, home to the world’s highest palm trees, or swim in the pristine river of Tayrona National Park. This country is also popularly known for its rich cultural heritage. With a fascinating history and influences from African slaves, Spanish colonizers, and indigenous tribes, Colombia has always been a center for history buffs. Cartagena and Medellin are some of the best places to visit in Colombia to explore history. Cartagena is one of the untouched colonial destinations. Take a quick stroll around the historic walled city, and you will feel like you have stepped into the prehistoric era. The other Colombian city- Medellin - is a vibrant metropolis known for its street art, museums, and galleries. Some must-see Colombia attractions in Medellin are Botero Plaza, Museum of Antioquia, Rafael Uribe Palace of Culture, etc. One of the most exciting aspects of Colombian culture is its dance and music. Colombia is known as the birthplace of a famous dance style called salsa. You can immerse yourself in the rhythm and energy of this dance form by visiting one of the most popular salsa clubs in cities like Bogota and Cali. These are some of the top Colombia tourist places where most travelers enjoy a good time. On the other side, Colombia is also famous for its coffee production. It is the world’s third-largest coffee producer. The major coffee plantation takes place in the Andean hills. The Eje Cafetero region is open for travelers for tastings, tours, and farm stays. Tayrona National Park is one of the best Colombia tourist spots where you will find the finest beaches. Most of these beaches are set against the picturesque mountains of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, which makes a perfect beach vacation for tourists. If you are an adventurous traveler who wants to indulge in an exhilarating experience, you must go for whitewater rafting in San Gil. There is another aspect that makes Colombia more attractive to tourists is its warm and friendly locals. Tourists receive warm and welcoming hospitality on their arrival to this blissful country. Whether you try local cuisines, learn salsa, or chat with locals over a cup of coffee, you will be sure to have an unforgettable experience. If you want to visit this wholesome country, don’t forget to pick up Colombia tour packages from Dook. We have comprehensive tour packages featuring everything you may want to experience on your vacation. Dook International thrives to create traveler-friendly tour packages at affordable prices. Whether it's unique historic sights, national parks, natural attractions, or bustling cities, there are plenty of options for a tourist. So, don’t waste time and book your Colombia package.
Parque Nacional Natural Tayrona


Gold Museum


Monserrate

Australia
Australia is every traveler’s dream destination, boasting countless tourist attractions. It is the most remote, highly developed, and fascinating country worldwide. Whether you want to explore beaches & islands, nature & national parks, wildlife, food & drink, adventure & sports, Australia offers it all. No matter with whom you are traveling, you will be sated. It delivers unique experiences to every traveler irrespective of age, budget, interest, or taste. From the best honeymoon locations to unique destinations, relaxing holiday spots, road trips, cool neighborhoods, and natural places, there’s so much to unearth in Australia. There’s a reason why most tourists choose Australia for a joyful vacation. And it is because of its utterly beautiful natural wonders. From Great Barrier Reef to the sacred Uluru, Australia has unending delightful sites worth visiting and enjoying. Australia’s vibrant art and mesmerizing laid-back atmosphere is another reason why tourist loves visiting. Besides the Australia attractions, it also offers adventure opportunities to adventurers. Whether you pick to discover the country’s backwood wilderness, surf along the incredible coastlines, snorkel, or simply sail, Australia proposes the best adventure. One of the best places to visit in Australia is its shimmering cities. To experience the urban delights of Australia, you must visit the metropolitan areas. From Sydney’s vibrant culture and pulsating ambiance to Melbourne’s pleasing European flair, there are plenty of things you can do, see, and experience in Australia. Australian weather is one of the points of attraction for so many tourists worldwide. It has a golden-sunny climate throughout the year. Australia, the land of astonishing contrasts and striking beauty, has many tourist places. The list starts with the Sydney Opera House. This Opera House graces the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites and is one of the famous architectural icons of the world. If you are in Australia, you shouldn’t miss seeing the Great Barrier Reef. It is one of the popular Australia tourist spots and a bucket-list destination for snorkelers, nature lovers, and island buffs. This place is so vast that one can see it from outer space. Uluru, another natural wonder, is one of the most photographed Australia tourist attractions. This striking monolith of Uluru-Kata Tjuta National Park is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Besides the Opera house, the Sydney Harbour Bridge is one of the Australia attractions. One of the top things you can do here is to capture the spectacular views over the harbor and city. Great Ocean Road is one of the best Australia tourist places, having dramatic scenic vistas. There are various things to see, such as Port Campbell National Park, an impressive rainforest, hiking trails, and delightful waterfalls. Kangaroo Island is another surprising place to visit in Australia. On this otherworldly island, Kangaroos can be seen jumping along the powdery shores, and Koalas cling to the eucalyptus trees. Besides natural Australia tourist spots, one unique place is the Heide Museum of Modern Art. This entire museum consists of a contemporary art gallery, heritage park, and historical art museum. The location of this museum is one of the reasons why tourists visit. It is set upon an enormous lush farmland.Australia is a very diverse country where you can find everything from vast desert lands to lush green forests. If you plan a holiday to Australia, you must look at Dook Australia tour packages. There, you will get countless attractions put together in a tour package for a budget-friendly price. We have crafted these travel packages in view of your travel taste and picks. Hurry! Fly to Australia and explore every corner of it.
Peninsula Hot Springs
Peninsula Hot Springs is the first natural hot springs and day spa centre in Victoria just 90 minutes from Melbourne. Natural thermal mineral waters flow into the pools and private baths at this award-winning coastal oasis providing the idyllic setting for relaxation and rejuvenation. Two bathing facilities provide an experience for everyone Bath House Experience over 20 globally-inspir

Green Field


Scots Church Melbourne
The Scots Church is a Presbyterian church in Melbourne Victoria Australia. It was the first Presbyterian church to be built in the Port Phillip District and is located on Collins Street. It is a congregation of the Presbyterian Church of Australia and has been described as an icon for well over a hundred years.

Deep Sea Divers Den


Sydney Harbour
Port Jackson consisting of the waters of Sydney Harbour Middle Harbour North Harbour and the Lane Cove and Parramatta Rivers is the ria or natural harbour of Sydney New South Wales Australia. The harbour is an inlet of the Tasman Sea. It is the location of the Sydney Opera House and Sydney Harbour Bridge. The location of the first European settlement and colony on the Aus

Sydney Opera House
The Sydney Opera House is a multi-venue performing arts centre at Sydney Harbour in Sydney New South Wales Australia. It is one of the 20th centurys most famous and distinctive buildings. Designed by Danish architect Jrn Utzon but completed by an Australian architectural team headed up by Peter Hall the building was formally opened on 20 October 1973 after a gestation beginni

Sea Life Sydney Aquarium
SEA LIFE Sydney Aquarium is a public aquarium that features a large variety of Australian aquatic life displaying more than 700 species comprising more than 13000 individual fish and other sea and water creatures from most of Australias water habitats. Opened in 1988 it is regarded as one of Sydneys premier tourist attractions with over 55% of its visitors each year coming fr

Sky High Indoor Trampoline Park


Wild Life Sydney
Wild Life Sydney Zoo is a wildlife park in the Darling Harbour precinct on the western edge of the Sydney central business district Sydney New South Wales Australia. Opened in September 2006 the zoo is located adjacent to a leisure and retail precinct that includes the SEA LIFE Sydney Aquarium and Madame Tussauds Sydney.

Mrs Macquaries Chair
Mrs Macquaries Chair is an exposed sandstone rock cut into the shape of a bench on a peninsula in Sydney Harbour. It was hand carved by convicts in 1810 for Elizabeth Macquarie the wife of Major-General Lachlan Macquarie Governor of New South Wales. The peninsula itself was known to the Gadigal as Yurong Point and is now widely known as Mrs Macquaries Point and is pa

Kincumba Mountain Reserve


Mildura Visitor Information Centre


Sea World
Sea World is a marine mammal park oceanarium and theme park located on the Gold Coast Queensland Australia. It includes rides animal exhibits and other attractions and it promotes conservation through education and the rescue and rehabilitation of sick injured or orphaned wildlife. The park is commercially linked to Warner Bros. Movie World and WetnWild Gold Coast as part of th

Queensland Gallery of Modern Art
The Gallery of Modern Art is an art museum located in the South Bank precinct of Brisbane Queensland Australia. The gallery is part of the Queensland Cultural Centre. GOMA opened on 2 December 2006. It is the Queensland Art Gallerys second building and is the largest gallery of modern and contemporary art in Australia. It complements the Queensland Art Gallery building situated onl

Mount Wellington
Mount Wellington officially kunanyikunni incorporating its Palawa kani name is a mountain in the southeast coastal region of Tasmania Australia. It is the summit of the Wellington Range and is within the Wellington Park reserve. Located at the foothills of the mountain is much of Tasmanias capital city Hobart.

Museum of Old and New Art
The Museum of Old and New Art is an art museum located within the Moorilla winery on the Berriedale peninsula in Hobart Tasmania Australia. It is the largest privately funded museum in the Southern Hemisphere. MONA houses ancient modern and contemporary art from the David Walsh collection. Noted for its central themes of sex and death the museum has been described b

Salamanca Market
Salamanca Market is a street market in Salamanca Place Hobart Tasmania Australia. The Salamanca Market is Tasmanias most visited tourist attractions and has won many awards for excellence. Located in historic Salamanca Place next to the Hobart waterfront the market has over 300 stallholders and operates every Saturday between 8.30 am to 3.00 pm.

Royal Tasmanian Botanical Gardens
The Royal Tasmanian Botanical Gardens which cover an area of approximately 14 hectares in Hobart located within the Queens Domain.

Bonorong Wildlife Sanctuary


Tasmanian Museum and Art Gallery
The Tasmanian Museum and Art Gallery is a museum located in Hobart Tasmania. The museum was established in 1846 by the Royal Society of Tasmania the oldest Royal Society outside England. The TMAG receives 400000 visitors annually.

Launceston City Park
Launceston City Park is a park in Launceston Tasmania Australia. Established in the 1820s by the Launceston Horticultural Society and handed over to the Launceston City Council in 1863. It is now an important part of cultural life in Launceston and also a heritage park.

Hollybank Treetops Adventure


Queen Victoria Museum and Art Gallery
The Queen Victoria Museum and Art Gallery is a museum located in Launceston Tasmania Australia. The QVMAG is the largest museum in Australia not located in a capital city.

The Tamar Valley


Tasmania Zoo
Tasmania Zoo is a zoo located in Launceston in the Australian state of Tasmania. Situated on 900 acres of old growth native bushland it is home to the states largest collection of native and exotic animals.

Royal Botanic Gardens
Royal Botanic Gardens Victoria are botanic gardens across two sites - Melbourne and Cranbourne. Melbourne Gardens was founded in 1846 when land was reserved on the south side of the Yarra River for a new botanic garden. It extends across 38 hectares that slope to the river with trees garden beds lakes and lawns. It displays almost 50000 individual plants representing 8500 di

Flinders Street Station


Queen Victoria Market
The Queen Victoria Market is a major landmark in Melbourne Victoria Australia and at around seven hectares is the largest open air market in the Southern Hemisphere.

Eureka Tower
Eureka Tower is a 297.3 m skyscraper located in the Southbank precinct of Melbourne Victoria Australia. Construction began in August 2002 and the exterior was completed on 1 June 2006. The plaza was finished in June 2006 and the building was officially opened on 11 October 2006. The project was designed by Melbourne architectural firm Fender Katsalidis Architects and

Melbourne Zoo
Melbourne Zoo is a zoo in Melbourne Australia. It is located within Royal Park in Parkville approximately 4 kilometres north of the centre of Melbourne. It is the primary zoo serving Melbourne. The zoo contains more than 320 animal species from Australia and around the world and is accessible via Royal Park station on the Upfield railway line and is also accessible via tram routes 58 and 19 a

Sydney Observatory
The Sydney Observatory is a heritage-listed meteorological station astronomical observatory function venue science museum and education facility located on Observatory Hill at Upper Fort Street in the inner city Sydney suburb of Millers Point in the City of Sydney local government area of New South Wales Australia. It was designed by William Weaver and Alexander Dawson and built from 1

Madame Tussauds Sydney
Madame Tussauds Sydney is a wax museum located in Darling Harbour in Sydney Australia and is situated on the Aquarium Wharf. Madame Tussauds is part of Merlin Entertainments which owns and operates attractions globally.

Sydney Harbour Bridge
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is an Australian heritage-listed steel through arch bridge across Sydney Harbour that carries rail vehicular bicycle and pedestrian traffic between the Sydney central business district and the North Shore. The view of the bridge the harbour and the nearby Sydney Opera House is widely regarded as an iconic image of Sydney and of Australia itself. The bridge i

Sydney Tower
Sydney Tower is Sydneys tallest structure and the second tallest observation tower in the Southern Hemisphere. The name Sydney Tower has become common in daily usage however the tower has been known as the Sydney Tower Eye AMP Tower Flower Tower Glower Tower Westfield Centrepoint Tower Big Poke Centrepoint Tower or just Centrepoint.

Adelaide Botanic Garden
The Adelaide Botanic Garden is a 51-hectare public garden at the north-east corner of the Adelaide city centre in the Adelaide Park Lands. It encompasses a fenced garden on North Terrace and behind it the Botanic Park. Work was begun on the site in 1855 with its official opening to the public on 4 October 1857.

Adelaide Zoo
Adelaide Zoo is Australias second oldest zoo and it is operated on a non-profit basis. It is located in the parklands just north of the city centre of Adelaide South Australia. It is administered by the Royal Zoological Society of South Australia Incorporated which is a full institutional member of the Zoo and Aquarium Association and the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums.

Adelaide Oval
Adelaide Oval is a sports ground in Adelaide South Australia located in the parklands between the city centre and North Adelaide. The venue is predominantly used for cricket and Australian rules football but has also played host to rugby league rugby union soccer tennis among other sports as well as regularly being used to hold concerts. Austadiums.com described Adelaid

Royal Botanic Garden
The Royal Botanic Garden Sydney is a heritage-listed major 30-hectare botanical garden event venue and public recreation area located at Farm Cove on the eastern fringe of the Sydney central business district in the City of Sydney local government area of New South Wales Australia.

Museum of Contemporary Art Australia
The Museum of Contemporary Art Australia located in George Street Sydney is an Australian museum solely dedicated to exhibiting interpreting and collecting contemporary art both from across Australia and around the world. It is housed in the art deco-style former Maritime Services Board Building on the western edge of Circular Quay.

National Gallery of Victoria
The National Gallery of Victoria popularly known as the NGV is an art museum in Melbourne Victoria Australia. Founded in 1861 it is Australias oldest largest and most visited art museum. The NGV houses an encyclopedic art collection across two sites NGV International located on St Kilda Road in the Melbourne Arts Precinct of Southbank and the Ian Potter Centre NGV Australia locate

Kings Park And Botanic Garden


Swan River Park


Elizabeth Quay
Elizabeth Quay is a mixed-use development project in the Perth central business district. Located on the north shore of Perth Water and centred on the landmark Swan Bells it was named in honour of Queen Elizabeth II during her Diamond Jubilee.

Australian War Memorial
The Australian War Memorial is Australias national memorial to the members of its armed forces and supporting organisations who have died or participated in wars involving the Commonwealth of Australia and some conflicts involving personnel from the Australian colonies prior to Federation. The memorial includes an extensive national military museum. The Australian War Memo

Goulburn Regional Art Gallery
Goulburn Regional Art Gallery is the regions hub for contemporary art and creative practices. The Gallery presents ambitious and...

Perth Zoo
Perth Zoo is a 41-acre zoological park in South Perth Western Australia. The zoo first opened in 1898 and by 2011 housed 1258 animals of 164 species and an extensive botanical collection. It is a full institutional member of the Zoo and Aquarium Association and the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums.
New Zealand
New Zealand is one of the most desirable destinations in the world. Unlike other destinations, New Zealand satiates every traveler with aerial mountains, classic glaciers, plentiful wine, and rolling hills. Undoubtedly, New Zealand is the hottest travel destination in the world. There’s nothing that this beautiful country cannot offer. From breathtaking scenery to friendly people, copious amounts of things to do, delectable food & wine, and an unmatchable vibe, it is filled with plenty of adventures. New Zealand tourist attractions are also abundant in number. Your eyes will get tired of capturing so much wonder around. Among the thousands of reasons to visit New Zealand, some are the unrealistic landscapes, handsome travel destinations, world-famous vineyards, safe to travel, and much more. Besides, there are countless places to visit in New Zealand. The list is very long, and you will barely manage to cover all of it. You will need more than one visit to embrace everything in this beautiful country. If you are a thrill-seeker, you must try New Zealand’s exhilarating adventures. From Bungee Jumping to Skydiving, Heli-Skiing, River Rafting, and caving, you will be awe-struck in wonder. Whether you are a trekker, long-drive lover, foodie, or cultural buff, there’s something for everyone in New Zealand. There are too many New Zealand tourist spots for every kind of traveler, whether you are traveling solo or with a group. From eco-lodges to the world’s most luxurious stays and quaint bed-and-breakfast inns, a traveler can experience diversity. Nature-crafted New Zealand is a real heaven on earth. Bay of Islands is one of the most enticing New Zealand attractions. It is a three-hour drive from Auckland. Over 144 islands are there, making it a haven for sailing and yachting. You can spot dolphins, whales, marlins, and Penguins here. Tourists can kayak along the coast, hike the island trails, bask in coves, and explore subtropical forests. Queenstown is one of the top New Zealand tourist places to visit. Settle between the shores of sparkling Lake Wakatipu and the remarkable snowy peaks, Queenstown is New Zealand’s adventurous capital. Some adrenaline-fueled things to do here are Jet Boating, Bungee Jumping, White Water Rafting, Rock Climbing, Paragliding, Downhill Skiing, and Mountain Biking. Among the Top New Zealand tourist attractions, Franz Josef and Fox glaciers are spectacular locations. These ice rivers flow from some of the highest peaks in the Southern Alps, where the kind of coastal climate makes it easy for travelers to access them on foot. Auckland, the city of sails, is one of the famous New Zealand tourist places among visitors. It is the country’s largest and most populous Polynesian city on the planet. It is an ideal place for day trips and wilderness adventures. With Black-sand beaches, rainforest hiking trails, and quaint islands, coves, & volcanoes, it is a perfect location to relish the best of New Zealand. Not just this, there are many other places to visit in New Zealand, such as Coromandel Peninsula, Tongariro National Park, Rotorua, Fiordland National Park, and more. You can spend a lovely time and make your trip more memorable with Dook International. Dook has some exciting New Zealand tour packages. To explore the variety of New Zealand attractions, connect with Dook. We have added the most desirable attractions in our tour packages, which range from Huka Falls, Waitomo Caves, Polynesian Spa, Mount Tongariro, and more. Now, don’t wait and pack your bags to head to New Zealand for a fulfilling experience.
Wai-O-Tapu Thermal Wonderland
Waiotapu also spelt Wai-O-Tapu is an active geothermal area at the southern end of the Okataina Volcanic Centre just north of the Reporoa caldera in New Zealands Taupo Volcanic Zone. It is 27 kilometres south of Rotorua

Waitomo Caves


Rotorua


Aoraki / Mount Cook


Westland Tai Poutini National Park


Routeburn Track
The Routeburn Track is a world-renowned 32 km tramping track found in the South Island of New Zealand.

Coronet Peak Base
Coronet Peak is a commercial skifield in Queenstown New Zealand located seven kilometres west of Arrowtown on the southern slopes of the 1649-metre peak which shares its name.

Sky Tower
The Sky Tower is a telecommunications and observation tower in Auckland New Zealand. Located at the corner of Victoria and Federal Streets within the citys CBD it is 328 metres (1076 ft) tall as measured from ground level to the top of the mast[4] making it the tallest freestanding structure in the Southern Hemisphere[5] and the 27th tallest tower in the world.

Auckland War Memorial Museum
The Auckland War Memorial Museum Tmaki Paenga Hira is one of New Zealands most important museums and war memorials. Its collections concentrate on New Zealand history natural history and military history

Auckland Domain
he Auckland Domain is a large park in Auckland New Zealand. It is the oldest park in the city and at 75 hectares is one of the largest. Located in the central suburb of Grafton the park contains all of the exgardeplosion crater and most of the surrounding tuff ring of the Pukekawa volcano

Huka Falls
The Huka Falls are a set of waterfalls on the Waikato River that drains Lake Taupo in New Zealand. A few hundred metres upstream from the Huka Falls the Waikato River narrows from approximately 100 metres across into a canyon only 15 metres across

Polynesian Spa
Polynesian Spa is a developed geothermal spa facility in Rotorua North Island New Zealand. Local Mori acclaimed the therapeutic benefits of the water and bathed for centuries in the acidic pool Te Pupunitanga now called Priests Bath

Mount Tongariro
Mount Tongariro is a compound volcano in the Taupo Volcanic Zone of the North Island of New Zealand. It is located 20 kilometres to the southwest of Lake Taupo and is the northernmost of the three active volcanoes that dominate the landscape of the central North

Te Puia
The New Zealand Mori Arts and Crafts Institute opened in 1963 in Rotorua New Zealand due to the impending threat of the loss of traditional Mori arts

Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa
The Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa is New Zealands national museum located in Wellington. Known as Te Papa or Our Place it opened in 1998 after the merging of the National Museum and the National Art Gallery. More than 1.5 million people visit every year.

International Antarctic Centre

Uganda
Uganda is a heavenly blessed country with diversity. Be it the climate, national parks, hot springs, snow-capped mountains, waterfalls, and dense forests, Uganda displays variety. Once Winston Churchill described Uganda as the “Pearl of Africa” because of its natural elegance and charm. This landlocked country houses an array of ecosystems and natural Uganda attractions, which are untouched and wild. However, the primary affinity is the mountain gorillas in Uganda. Watching these Gorillas up close in their natural habitat is extraordinary that lets you craft unforgettable memories. Among the top things to do in Uganda, one of the most recurrent activities is to indulge in Gorilla trekking. Mountain Gorillas are the most common and usual site in Uganda, where they are slightly above 1000 in number. For nature lovers, this experience can be rewarding. It is also known as the Switzerland of Africa because of the natural landscapes, mountains, forests, and valleys. Further, you can indulge in local food. Uganda has an array of tasty local dishes. One of the top Uganda tourist attractions is Art Galleries. An intriguing fact about Uganda is that there is no coastline. However, 26% of the land is enclosed by lakes and rivers. Most of Uganda’s population is young. Lake Victoria is not just one of the prominent Uganda tourist spots but also the second-largest lake in the world. Uganda is full of natural attractions that will not fail to astound you. Mount Elgon National Park, named after Mount Elgon, boasts incredible scenery and fantastic trekking. It falls into the list of one of the best places to visit in Uganda. With primordial cave paintings, dramatic Mount Elgon, and ample wildlife, this national park is too good to be true. Bwindi National Park is another one of the famous Uganda tourist places. The rare and elusive mountain gorilla can be found in this park amid the densely populated lush-green vegetation. Tourists from every part of the world come to this national park to locate gorillas. Rwenzori Mountains National Park is one of the most beautiful places on this planet. Many travelers add this park to their list of places to visit in Uganda. The marvelous landscapes of the park make some wonderous trekking that feels like walking in heaven. Murchison Falls is one of the best Uganda tourist attractions. You sure don’t want to miss this place for some valid reasons. This breathtaking sight can take your heart away. You can even witness the African lions, leopards, elephants, buffalo, and giraffes in the nearby conservative area. Lake Victoria, one of the popular Uganda attractions, is the world’s largest tropical lake. It boasts one of the largest ecosystems in the world. From picturesque mountains to islands, fishing boats, beaches, and numerous bird & animal species, it offers an entire wildlife experience. Besides, there’s so much that you must grasp while visiting this country.If Uganda is next on the list of countries to visit, you must take a quick overview of Dook’s tour packages. Dook International offers budgeted tours to countless travelers. Our Uganda tour packages offer different attractions such as Uganda Museum, Murchison Falls Uganda, Kibuli Mosque, Mount Elgon, Sipi Falls, and more. Now, don’t waste time and choose our bespoke tour packages to visit the best Uganda tourist places.
Murchison Falls National Park Uganda


Queen Elizabeth National Park


Lake Mburo National Park


Kibale National Park


Kidepo National Park Uganda


Rwenzori Mountains National Park


Semuliki National Park


Lake Bunyonyi


Ziwa Rhino Wildlife Ranch


Kasubi Royal Tombs


Uganda National Mosque


Uganda Museum


Murchison Falls Uganda


Uganda Wildlife Conservation Education


Mabira forest


Pian Upe Game Reserve


Baha'i House of Worship


St Mary's Cathedral Rubaga


Ndere Cultural Centre


Kabaka's Palace


Itanda Falls


Entebbe Botanical Garden


Kibuli Mosque


Mount Elgon


Sipi Falls


Ngamba Chimpanzee sanctuary on lake


Muhavura Volcano


Uganda Martyrs Catholic Shrine Basilica, Namugongo


Namirembe Cathedral


Nyero Rock Paintings


Bwindi Impenetrable Forest National Park


Amabeere Caves

Vatican City
Vatican City, the smallest country in the world, is filled with architecture, history, and art. Spanning over 0.44 square kilometers, Vatican City is a beautiful European holiday destination. Bordered by Rome, this magnificent country has so many Vatican City tourist attractions that visitors enjoy exploring. Besides boasting stunning art and spectacular architecture, Vatican City has a rich history and many historical attractions. This unmatched tourist destination is attracting millions of tourists every year. There are not one or two but many reasons to visit Vatican City. One among them is St. Peter’s Basilica. It is one of the most stunning Vatican City attractions that leave visitors in awe of its beauty. This Renaissance-style church is the world’s largest church by interior measures. It is by far one of the must-see sights in the Vatican City. Built between the 16th and 18th centuries, this church still holds important significance in this country. Another marvel in the list of top Vatican City tourist spots is Sistine Chapel. The walls and ceilings of the chapel are adorned with vibrant frescoes by Michelangelo and other renowned artists. This place has been the residence of the Pope and is also being used for the election of a new Pope. Not to mention, the Vatican museums are one of the reasons why you must visit this country at least once. These renowned museums are one of the best places to visit in Vatican City. Boasting an extensive collection of art and historical treasures, these museums captivate your attention. How can someone forget to visit the Vatican Gardens? The grandeur look and spectacular art sceneries draw everyone’s attention. Vatican Gardens are one of the most peaceful Vatican City tourist places to spend quiet time. Created by Pope Nicholas II in the 13th century, the vast green landscaped and grassy spaces charm every visitor. Another breathtaking attraction in Vatican City is Vatican Library. It is among the most awe-inspiring Vatican City tourist attractions. Vatican Library is the world’s richest library with 7000 incunabula, 25000 medieval hand-written, and 80000 manuscripts. Vatican Necropolis is another gem in the list of popular places to visit in Vatican City. Located below St. Peter’s Basilica, this archeological marvel is a treasure trove of Vatican City. This country may be small, but it has so much to explore and experience. Vatican City is an ideal tourist destination that stands as a testament to artistic brilliance, spiritual devotion, and human achievement. If you want to plan a trip to Vatican City, Dook has exciting offers for you. We have enticing Vatican City tour packages that have all the tourist attractions you can visit. You can even customize the holiday package as per your travel need. And the cherry on the cake is their affordable and budget-friendly price. So, pack your stuff and fly to this blissful country.Hong Kong
Hong Kong is widely known as the most glamorous city in the world. It is one of the most exciting cities and is an ideal destination for every type of holiday. Situated in Southeastern China, Hong Kong is a bustling fusion of Chinese and Western cultures. Jam-packed with places to visit in Hong Kong, it is blooming with countless tourists. From swarming streets to the quaint countryside, modern skyscrapers, conventional Chinese architecture, and ample natural beauty, Hong Kong has so much to offer to every traveler. There are many Hong Kong tourist attractions, but one of the main among them is its iconic skyline. The towering skyscrapers and Victoria Peak are the two which top the list. Tourists can take a tram ride to the peak and witness the spectacular panoramic views of Hong Kong city, the surrounding hills, and the harbor. One of the must-see Hong Kong attractions is the Big Budha statue on Lantau Island. This glorious statue is 34 meters tall and sits above the hill overlooking the neighboring countryside. Tourists can take a cable car to get to the statue and relish the picturesque views of the island and the sea below. In every corner of this bustling city, something new and unique is waiting for you to discover. Whether it’s Hong Kong tourist attractions, ancient temples, shops selling gadgets & souvenirs, and local culture & tradition, there are ample things to experience in this beautiful city. Underneath all of this, there’s also a hidden side of Hong Kong where you will see forested peaks, pristine beaches, hiking trails, islands, and conventional fishing villages. Hong Kong is not only a traveler’s paradise. But also a great place for exploring shopping destinations and delicious cuisines. From lively street markets to high-end shops, Hong Kong tourist spots are countless for any kind of shopping. Tourists can shop for everything from local souvenirs to luxury goods and enjoy the spirited atmosphere of the city’s market. Besides the popular Hong Kong tourist places, there are plenty of outdoor activities to do. Nature lovers can take a stroll around the city to beautiful parks and nature reserves, including Kowloon Park, Sai Kung Country Park, and Hong Kong Park. Tourists can cycle, hike, or take a walk in these picturesque areas to enjoy the natural beauty of Hong Kong. Just like the diverse culture, Hong Kong also has varied and vibrant cuisines. From fine dining to street food, tourists can experience every kind of cuisine. Besides being a high-spirited city, Hong Kong is an ideal holiday destination for families with children. There are various family-friendly Hong Kong tourist attractions. The two most famous theme parks in Hong Kong for family groups are Hong Kong Disneyland and Ocean Park. Certainly, Hong Kong is one of the most splendid cities in the world, but there’s much more to explore here than what meets the eye. If you are planning an international trip, there’s no better place than Hong Kong. And you don’t need to go anywhere else to get the best Hong Kong tour packages. Dook is here to offer you the finest experience with its all-inclusive Hong Kong tour packages. From the top Hong Kong tourist attractions to forest-covered mountains, beautiful hiking trails, pristine beaches, and lush green islands, Dook has covered it all.
Victoria Peak


Hong Kong Disneyland


Ocean Park Hong Kong


Tian Tan Buddha Statue


The Peak Tram


Skyline Tower


Temple Street Night Market


Hong Kong Park


Nan Lian Garden

Slovenia
Slovenia, a Central European marvel, is a land of majestic lakes, magnificent mountains, picturesque beauty, and surreal landscapes. In every corner, Slovenia boasts charm. Among Slovenia tourist attractions, Nature is paramount. From mountains to caves, coasts to lakes, rivers to forests, nature plays a phenomenal role in Slovenia’s extreme beauty. Slovenia is just setting its foot in the list of top travel destinations in Europe. It is a diverse nation that offers something for every traveler. It has unparalleled natural beauty, friendly locals, delicious food, rich history, and positive culture. Whether you come here for a brief vacation or a week-long trip, you will go home with loving memories. For adrenaline junkies, Slovenia has many adventurous sports. Be it zipline, ski jumping, bungee jumping, and kayaking, you can indulge in any kind of adventure. With its rich history, it tends to capture the attention of history buffs. Many museums in the form of Slovenia tourist spots are there to intrigue historians. Among the thousands of caves, 22 caves in Slovenia are open for the public to explore. Each cave has something of its own that captivates the heart of every explorer. These caves are one of the interesting places to visit in Slovenia. Slovenia’s seaside is one of a thing to see- it is so diverse and vibrant that it takes you by heart. The beautiful Slovenian coasts offer blissful beaches that charm visitors with beach side cafes and restaurants. Maribor, the largest city in Slovenia, is famously known for its wine industry. Besides the wine industries, there are Mani Square and Castle Square, where you can witness ancient architecture. This city is one of the top places to visit in Slovenia. Lake Bled is one of the most stunning Slovenia tourist attractions that attract the attention of every traveler. This scenic beauty is surrounded by the Julian Alps, which makes it look more surreal. The highlight of this emerald-green lake is the small island in the middle- which has a church from the 17th century. The other way to enjoy this one-of-a-kind Slovenia attraction is to take a horse ride on the shores of the lake or climb the Bled Castle. Ljubljana is one of the most visited Slovenia tourist places. It has a unique aura that draws people here. The major attraction of this breathtaking city is Tromstovje. If you love to see castles and medieval squares, this place should be on your list of Slovenia tourist places to visit. Being the capital of Slovenia, it is also home to fascinating art, fantastic architectural museums, a beautiful zoo, and the impressive Slovene National Theatre. Slovenia has a range of things to see and do for every kind of tourist. There’s no way- this cannot be on your list of destinations to visit.Planning a vacation to Slovenia? Don’t worry- Dook is here to help you. With its enticing Slovenia tour packages, you can enjoy the best holiday of your life. We have every attraction included in each travel package so that you don’t miss out on visiting them. Book your next getaway with Dook and get the best deals.Norway
Norway, a Northern European marvel, is an incredible holiday destination that flaunts many natural wonders and tourist attractions. From magnificent fjords to dramatic landscapes, aerial mountains, rugged coastlines, impressive cities, rich history, and unique culture, Norway has everything that you want to experience. Norway’s beauty and charm can only be summed up in one word- Spectacular. One can experience the diverse range of natural wonders in Norway. Besides the famous Norway tourist attractions, it offers popular outdoor sports and wildlife watching. The most popular Norway attractions are the Midnight Sun and the Northern Lights. One of the most significant attractions of Norway is its fjords. These fjords create a beautiful landscape for tourists to admire. The most popular among these is the Geirangerfjord, also listed as one of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites. Tourists can explore this place by boat or kayak to immerse themselves in the majestic natural surroundings of waterfalls, wildlife, and mountains. Norway’s largest fjord is Sognefjord, sprawling across 204 meters of land. You can unearth the unspoiled beauty of this fjord through plentiful sightseeing tours and embark on a different adventure. Some other best places to visit in Norway are its National Parks, which include Jotunheimen, Dovrefjell, and Rondane. These national parks offer tourists a chance to hike, ski, and bike through the splendid wilderness. There are other Norway tourist places like beautiful lakes that you can visit and admire the stunning surroundings. The two most famous lakes in Norway are Mjosa and Tyin. The list of top Norway attractions hasn’t yet been finished. One of the wonderful places to visit in Norway is Lofoten Islands. It is one of the popular tourist destinations in Norway. There is a multitude of things to enjoy and explore on this island. Tourists can relax at the beach, visit traditional fishing villages, and go hiking & kayaking. A diverse range of wildlife is also present on this island, including eagles, moose, and whales. Besides the beautiful nature, Norway is also famous for its vibrant cities. The cities in Norway offer a unique mix of Scandinavian culture and modern amenities. Oslo, the capital of Norway, is the most visited city by tourists. It houses various museums, parks, and galleries, making it one of the perfect Norway tourist spots. Another coveted city in Norway is Bergen. Located on the west coast, Bergen is known for its vibrant wooden houses, lively music scene, and scenic harbor. One of the most famous things about the city is Bryggen Hanseatic Wharf- an incredible place for sightseeing. Norway’s culture is profoundly rooted in its history and traditions. You can experience this by attending events and festivals throughout the country. One of the popular festivals in Norway is the Bergen International Festival. It showcases theater, dance, and music from around the world. Norway is also an ideal destination for all adventure aficionados, where visitors can indulge in snowboarding, snowmobiling, and skiing in the winter. In summer, tourists can go kayaking, hiking, and biking. In addition, tourists can also add brand new experiences of fishing, whitewater rafting, and canoeing to their list. Norway is one of the bucket list destinations of every traveler due to its unique blend of nature, adventure, and culture. If you want to fly to Norway and explore many tourist places there, you should check out Dook’s holiday packages. From the Norwegian Museum to Vigelands Park, Holmenkollen Ski Museum, and Nobel Peace Center, Dook has added every Norway tourist spot to its tour packages. We ensure that you don’t miss out on any significant attraction. Now, don’t wait and buy our pocket-friendly Norway tour packages.
Vigelands park
Park & museum of Vigelands sculpture

Operahuset
Opera house

The Norwegian Museum of Cultural History
Large open-air collection of Medieval buildings & indoor culture & lifestyle exhibits.

Holmenkollen Ski Museum
High-tech museum for the history of sport & expedition skiing with a ski simulator & tower view

Nobel Peace Center
Museum of the Nobel Peace Prize Alfred Nobel & other laureates with temporary exhibitions & a shop.

Karl Johans gate
Notable street

The Fram Museum
19th-century polar exploration ship in museum with expedition exhibits & northern lights shows.

Arctic Cathedral


Husky Safari


Akvariet i Bergen - The National Aquarium


Bergenhus Fortress


Bryggen
Bryggen also known as Tyskebryggen is a series of Hanseatic heritage commercial buildings lining up the eastern side of the Vgen harbour in the city of Bergen Norway.

Flibanen
Funicular with a 5 to 8 minute journey to the top station offering far reaching views over Bergen.

Sommaroy
Sommaroy is a picturesque island in Tromso Municipality northern Norway. Known as the Summer Island it is famous for its stunning white sandy beaches crystal-clear waters and breathtaking views of the surrounding fjords and mountains. The island is a popular destination for both locals and tourists offering activities such as fishing kayaking and hiking. During the summer the island experiences the Midnight Sun while in winter it is a prime spot for viewing the Northern Lights. Sommary is also noted for its laid-back atmosphere and small fishing community.
Sweden
Sweden is an exotic holiday destination in Europe. With its blessed landscapes, far-off cities, unspoiled forests, fairy lakes, and rich heritage, Sweden is every traveler’s heaven. From opulent palaces to medieval towns, vast Arctic landscapes, and the Ice hotel, no destination is better than Sweden. Sweden’s rich history offers a multitude of historical landmarks, museums, and architectural marvels to visit. There is no doubt that Sweden tourist attractions are plentiful. A tourist will get to see and experience a lot of things. The top Sweden attractions include historic towns, natural attractions, vibrant cities, unique culture, and more. Sweden is home to thousands of rivers, forests, and lakes that offers ample opportunities for tourists to indulge in Kayaking, fishing, hiking, and other outdoor adventures. Among the best places to visit in Sweden is its unspoiled countryside. Sweden’s beautiful and charming towns offer raw and exquisite natural beauty. Another major draw for tourists is the majestic and vibrant cities of Sweden. Stockholm, the capital city of Sweden, is popularly known as the Venice of the North. This city put forward stunning architecture, cultural offerings, and rich history for tourists. Travelers can visit the Gamla Stan, Vasa Museum, Skansen & Djurgarden, and more. One of the popular Sweden tourist spots is Liseberg Theme Park. Every year this theme park lures millions of tourists. There is a huge range of attractions- from fairy-tale castles to adrenaline-pumping rides, bumper cars, and four roller coaster rides. Gothenburg, the second-largest city in Sweden, is a captivating city offering a renowned charm. It is home to rusted art galleries, calm & lively night streets, and Michelin-star restaurants across the streets. Besides the many Sweden tourist attractions, there are unique cultural offerings. One of the popular cultural festivals in Sweden is Midsummer, which is celebrated in June every year. At this festival, all the Swedish people gather to dance around, sing traditional songs, and enjoy a delectable feast. One of the must-see Sweden tourist places is Sarek National Park. It is an ideal destination for mountaineers and hikers. This national park is home to over 200 peaks and more than 100 glaciers. The Oresund Bridge is another one of the famous Sweden attractions and the most iconic in Europe. Gammelstad Church Town is another one of the must-visit places to visit in Sweden. The highlight of this place is its red wooden houses covered in white snow. This unique attraction depicts the communal spirit and country’s lifestyle that dominates in the parts of Sweden. Among countless castles and palaces in Sweden, one of the most famous is Drottningholm Palace. Built in the 16th century, the Drottningholm is currently home to the Swedish Royal family. This palace is also Sweden’s most elegant architectural attraction. Sweden is a fantastic tourist destination for someone who loves natural beauty, cultural offerings, vibrant cities, rich history, and commendable attractions. Whether you want to explore outdoor adventures, discover Sweden’s history, or experience the natural beauty, this country offers something for everyone. If you are in the middle of planning your trip to Sweden, you must check out Dook’s tour packages. Our Sweden tour packages have every attraction, from Vasa Museum to City Hall, Djurgarden, Skansen, Drottningholm Palace, and more. Now is your chance to tick off this amazing destination from your bucket list.
Vasa Museum
The Vasa Museum is a maritime museum in Stockholm Sweden. Located on the island of Djurgrden the museum displays the only almost fully intact 17th century ship that has ever been salvaged the 64-gun warship Vasa that sank on her maiden voyage in 1628. The Vasa Museum opened in 1990 and according to the official web site is the most visited museum in Scandinavia. Together with other museums such as the Stockholm Maritime Museum it belongs to the Swedish National Maritime Museums.

Skansen
Skansen is the first open-air museum and zoo in Sweden and is located on the island Djurgrden in Stockholm Sweden. It was opened on 11 October 1891 by Artur Hazelius to show the way of life in the different parts of Sweden before the industrial era. The name Skansen has also been used as a noun to refer to other open-air museums and collections of historic structures particularly in Central and Eastern Europe but also in the United States e.g. Old World Wisconsin and Fairplay Colorado.

ABBA The Museum
ABBA The Museum is a Swedish interactive exhibition about the pop band ABBA that opened in Stockholm Sweden in May 2013. ABBAs collected works are showcased in a contemporary interactive setting at Djurgrden Stockholm.

Djurgrden
Djurgrden or more officially Kungliga Djurgrden is an island in central Stockholm Sweden.

Drottningholm Palace
The Drottningholm Palace is the private residence of the Swedish royal family. Drottningholm is near the capital Stockholm. Built on the island of Lovn it is one of Swedens Royal Palaces. It was originally built in the late 16th century and it served as a regular summer residence of the Swedish royal court for most of the 18th century. Apart from being the private residence of the Swedish royal family the palace is a popular tourist attraction.

City Hall
The Stockholm City Hall is the building of the Municipal Council for the City of Stockholm in Sweden. It stands on the eastern tip of Kungsholmen island next to Riddarfjrdens northern shore and facing the islands of Riddarholmen and Sdermalm.

Grona Lund
Grona Lund or colloquially Gronan is an amusement park in Stockholm Sweden. Located on the seaward side of Djurgarden Island it is relatively small compared to other amusement parks mainly because of its central location which limits expansion. The 3.8-ha amusement park has over 30 attractions and is a popular venue for concerts in the summer. It was founded in 1883 by James Schultheiss. The parks location is unique in the sense that most of the buildings are old residential and commercial structures from the 19th century. The buildings were not built for the park instead the park was built around the buildings. The park has three different entertainment venues Dansbanan Grona Lundsteatern and Stora Scenen.

Swedish History Museum
The Swedish History Museum is a museum located in Stockholm Sweden that covers Swedish archaeology and cultural history from the Mesolithic period to the present day.  Founded in 1866 it operates as a government agency and is tasked with preserving Swedish historical items as well as making knowledge about history available to the public. The origin of the museum is the collections of art and historical objects gathered by Swedish monarchs since the 16th century. It has a number of permanent exhibitions and annually hosts special exhibitions tied to current events.

Liljevalchs
Liljevalchs konsthall is an art gallery located on the Djurgrden island in Stockholm Sweden. Designed by architect Carl Bergsten and inaugurated in March 1916 it is today owned by the City of Stockholm. Behind the entrance on the northwestern corner is a small vestibule. To the right of the latter is a large sculpture hall leading to two large galleries with skylights intended for paintings flanked by a series of smaller exhibition spaces. The eastern end of the building has a large-scale portico facing a small park surrounded by the large windows of a small restaurant. One of the most appreciated exhibition spaces in Sweden Liljevalch is renowned for its well-proportioned spaces in a range of sizes and its restaurant Bla Porten.

Stockholm City Hall
Stockholm City Hall is the seat of Stockholm Municipality in Stockholm Sweden. It stands on the eastern tip of Kungsholmen island next to Riddarfjardens northern shore and facing the islands of Riddarholmen and Sodermalm. It houses offices and conference rooms as well as ceremonial halls.

Maritime Museum
The Maritime Museum in Stockholm Sweden is a museum for naval history merchant shipping and shipbuilding. Located in the Gardet section of the inner-city district Ostermalm the museum offers a panoramic view of the bay Djurgardsbrunnsviken. The building was designed by architect Ragnar Ostberg and built in 1933-36. The museum houses about 900000 photos 50000 objects and 45000 drawings all related to the sea coast ships and boats past and present. A major part of the collection the boats are housed in Boat Hall 2 at Galarvarvet in Stockholm. The boat collection ranges from canoes to Skerry cruisers.

Sergels torg
Sergels torg is a major public square in Stockholm Sweden constructed in the 1960s and named after 18th-century sculptor Johan Tobias Sergel whose workshop was once located north of the square. The construction of the square was completed in 1967. Before the creation of Sergels torg Brunkebergstorg was the most important public space in the area the hub about which traffic revolved and the place where people would go to work and find entertainment.

The Royal Palace Stockholm
Stockholm Palace or the Royal Palace is the official residence and major royal palace of the Swedish monarch. Stockholm Palace is on Stadsholmen in Gamla stan in the capital Stockholm. It neighbors the Riksdag building. The offices of the King the other members of the Swedish royal family and the Royal Court of Sweden are here. The palace is used for representative purposes by the King whilst performing his duties as the head of state.

Nationalmuseum
Nationalmuseum is the national gallery of Sweden located on the peninsula Blasieholmen in central Stockholm. The museums operations stretch far beyond the borders of Blasieholmen the national museum that manages the National Portrait Gallery collection at Gripshom the Gustavsbergporclain museum a handful of castle collections and the Swedish Institute in Paris. In the summer of 2018 Nationalmuseum Jamtli opened in Ostersund as a way to show a part of the collection in the north of Sweden. The museums benefactors include King Gustav III and Carl Gustaf Tessin. The museum was founded in 1792 as Kungliga Museet. The present building was opened in 1866 when it was renamed the Nationalmuseum and used as one of the buildings to hold the 1866 General Industrial Exposition of Stockholm.

Nordiska museet
The Nordic Museum is a museum located on Djurgrden an island in central Stockholm Sweden dedicated to the cultural history and ethnography of Sweden from the early modern period to the contemporary period.

Riddarholmen Church
Riddarholmen Church is the church of the former medieval Greyfriars Monastery in Stockholm Sweden. The church serves as the final resting place of most Swedish monarchs. Riddarholmen Church is located on the island of Riddarholmen close to the Royal Palace in Stockholm Sweden.

Mariaberget
Mariaberget is an informal area located in northwestern Sodermalm in Stockholm. Today the entire area north of Hornsgatan between Torkel Knutssonsgatan and Pustegrand is referred to as Mariaberget. The name comes from the Maria Magdalena congregation. The hill on the northern part of Sodermalm has been inhabited since the 14th century perhaps already when Stockholm was founded in the 13th century. Originally the assembly included the whole of Sodermalm. Katarina congregation was added in the 17th century the Sofia congregation at the beginning of the 20th century and the Hogalid congregation in the mid-1920s. In city plans from the 1880s several black-accessible and undeveloped mountains were reserved as parks and during the name revision in 1885 the quarters Kattfoten and Bossan were named Mariaberget. The part between Pustegrand in the east and Blecktornsgrand in the west is called Mariaberget ostra and is a cultural reserve with a large number of buildings which according to the City Museum in Stockholm have extremely high cultural and historical values.

Ulriksdal Palace
Ulriksdal Palace is a royal palace situated on the banks of the Edsviken in the Royal National City Park in Solna Municipality 6 km north of Stockholm. It was originally called Jakobsdal for its owner Jacob De la Gardie who had it built by architect Hans Jacob Kristler in 1643-1645 as a country retreat.

House of Nobility
The House of Nobility in Stockholm Sweden is a corporation and a building that maintains records and acts as an interest group on behalf of the Swedish nobility. The name is literally translated as House of Knights as the knights belong to the higher ranks of the Swedish nobility sometimes also together with titles such as count and baron. All esquires are also represented in the corporation. This is a tradition from the Middle Ages when Sweden during the Kalmar Union only had one knight Sten Sture. The architecture of the old main library in Turku Finland was influenced by the Swedish House of Nobility.

Icehotel
Icehotel is the worlds first hotel made entirely of ice and snow located in the small village of Jukkasjrvi in Swedish Lapland. Each year the hotel is rebuilt with a new design by various artists worldwide. Guests can stay in ice rooms visit the ice bar and enjoy unique sculptures and art installations all within the icy structure. The hotel also offers a variety of Arctic experiences including dog sledding Northern Lights viewing and snowmobile tours.

Sami Church
The Sami Church also known as Jukkasjarvi Church is one of Swedens oldest wooden churches and a key historical landmark in the village of Jukkasjarvi. Built in the early 17th century the church is known for its distinctive red wooden exterior and richly decorated interior. It features a stunning altar painting by Bror Hjorth depicting elements of Sami culture. The church serves as a symbol of the integration between traditional Smi spirituality and Christian practices.

Tornetrask
Tornetrask is one of Swedens largest and deepest lakes located in the Lapland region near the border with Norway. The lake spans approximately 70 kilometers in length and is renowned for its crystal-clear waters surrounded by stunning mountain scenery. Tornetrsk is a popular destination for fishing hiking and observing the Northern Lights particularly in the winter months when the lake often freezes over. The nearby Abisko National Park offers easy access to the lake and is a key location for outdoor activities and nature experiences.
Denmark
Denmark is a Scandinavian country known for its stunning landscapes, glorious beaches, fairy-tale castles, rich history, dense forest, innovative architecture, tourist attractions, and friendly people. It may be a small country, but it is jam-packed with famous Denmark attractions that draw the attention of many travelers. From Tivoli Gardens to Christiansborg Palace, the National Museum of Denmark, the National Gallery of Denmark, and more, there are countless places to visit in Denmark. Copenhagen is the capital city of Denmark and the most known tourist destination. This capital city offers a wide range of Denmark tourist attractions for travelers. Tivoli Gardens is one such attraction in Copenhagen. It is the world’s oldest amusement park, which is also an inspiration behind the Disney theme parks. You will catch a wide variety of attractions, including puppet theaters, roller coasters, food pavilions, cafes, restaurants, and more. Christiansborg Palace is another one of the famous Denmark tourist spots located in Copenhagen. This palace has become a Parliament home, Prime Minister’s office, and the Supreme Court. Another world-class spot to visit in Denmark is the National Museum. This national museum is 10-minute stroll from Tivoli Gardens. The museum delves into Danish history and culture and displays an incredible collection of Danish artifacts. If you are a history buff, there is an incredible opportunity to unearth Denmark’s cultural heritage through numerous museums and landmarks. One of the best places to visit in Denmark to explore history is the Viking Ship Museum. It is a must-see attraction for someone interested in the history of Vikings. If you are a nature lover, Denmark’s countryside is an ideal place to head. From sweeping hills to uneven coastlines, Denmark’s scenic beauty is unparalleled. Another marvel is the North Sea coastline. It has stunning sandy beaches and spectacular dunes. The Wadden Sea National Park, the UNESCO World Heritage Site, is a famous destination for nature aficionados and birdwatchers. Among the top Denmark tourist places to see, Elsinore is one of the best. This city is located in eastern Denmark and is steeped in history. It is home to many libraries, shipyard museums, and exhibition halls. Rosenborg, the beautiful crown jewel of Denmark, is a 400-year-old castle that still maintains its majestic charm and grandeur. The beauty of this castle is impossible to describe. You can also explore the picturesque island known for its art & craft and fishing- Bornholm. Located in the Baltic Sea, it is an ideal escape for tourists who want to avoid the hustle and bustle of the cities. Besides the things to see and explore, tourists can also make their tummies happy with the best culinary delights. Denmark is famous for its seafood, traditional sandwiches, and pastries. Denmark is a fascinating country that offers everything a traveler need. From places to see to history to explore to food to taste, a traveler will not be left empty-handed. Don’t you think you should plan a quick trip to Denmark and excavate the hidden beauty of this country? If you are excited to visit Denmark, you don’t need to go further. Dook International has the best holiday tour packages. We ensure you have a great time with complete convenience. Our Denmark tour packages include every significant attraction that you should visit. So, wait no more and get in touch with Dook. Some exciting and pocket-friendly offers are waiting for you.
Tivoli Gardens
19th-century amusement park open Apr-Sep with antique roller coaster & live entertainment program.

The Little Mermaid
The Little Mermaid is a bronze statue by Edvard Eriksen depicting a mermaid becoming human. The sculpture is displayed on a rock by the waterside at the Langelinie promenade in Copenhagen Denmark. It is 1.25 meters tall and weighs 175 kilograms. Based on the 1837 fairy tale of the same name by Danish author Hans Christian Andersen the small and unimposing statue is a Copenhagen icon and has been a major tourist attraction since its unveiling in 1913. In recent decades it has become a popular target for defacement by vandals and political activists. The statue was commissioned in 1909 by Carl Jacobsen son of the founder of Carlsberg who had been fascinated by a ballet about the fairytale in Copenhagens Royal Theatre and asked the ballerina Ellen Price to model for the statue. The sculptor Edvard Eriksen created the bronze statue which was unveiled on August 23 1913. The statues head was modeled after Price but as the ballerina did not agree to model in the nude the sculptors wife Eline Eriksen was used for the body.

Nyhavn
Nyhavn is a 17th-century waterfront canal and entertainment district in Copenhagen Denmark

Amalienborg
18th-century rococo complex of palaces with a museum & marchesdisplays by royal guards.

Kronborg
Kronborg is a castle and stronghold in the town of Helsingr Denmark.

Church of Holmen
The Holmen Church is a Parish church in central Copenhagen in Denmark on the street called Holmens Kanal. First built as an anchor forge in 1563 it was converted into a naval church by Christian IV. It is famous for having hosted the wedding between Margrethe II of Denmark the current queen of Denmark and Prince Henrik in 1967. It is the burial site of such notabilities as naval heroes Niels Juel and Peter Tordenskjold and composer Niels Wilhelm Gade and contains artwork by among others Bertel Thorvaldsen and Karel van Mander.

Slotsholmen
Slotsholmen is an island in the harbor of Copenhagen Denmark and part of Copenhagen Inner City. The name is taken from the successive castles and palaces located on the island since Bishop Absalon constructed the citys first castle on the island in 1167 at the site where Christiansborg Palace lies today.

Christiansborg
Christiansborg Palace is a palace and government building on the islet of Slotsholmen in central Copenhagen Denmark. It is the seat of the Danish Parliament the Danish Prime Ministers Office and the Supreme Court of Denmark. Also several parts of the palace are used by the Danish monarch including the Royal Reception Rooms the Palace Chapel and the Royal Stables. The palace today bears witness to three eras of Danish architecture as the result of two serious fires. The first fire occurred in 1794 and the second in 1884. The main part of the current palace finished in 1928 is in the historicist Neo-baroque style. The chapel dates back to 1826 and is in a neoclassical style.

Church of our Saviour
The Church of Our Saviour is a baroque church in Copenhagen Denmark most famous for the external spiral winding staircase that can be climbed to the top offering extensive views over central Copenhagen. It is also noted for its carillon which is the largest in northern Europe and plays melodies every hour from 8 am to midnight. The church is built in a Dutch baroque style and its basic layout is a Greek cross. The walls rest on a granite foundation and are made of red and yellow tiles but in a random pattern unlike what is seen in Christian IVs buildings where they are generally systematically arranged. The facade is segmented by pilasters in the palladian giant order that is they continue in the buildings entire height. The pilasters are of the Tuscan order with bases and capitals in sandstone.

Copenhagen Zoo
Copenhagen Zoo is a zoological garden in Copenhagen Denmark. Founded in 1859 it is one of the oldest zoos in Europe and is a member of EAZA. It comprises 11 hectares and is located in the municipality of Frederiksberg sandwiched between the parks of Frederiksberg Gardens and Sndermarken. With 1571331 visitors in 2019 it is the most visited zoo and one of the most visited attractions in Denmark. The zoo is noted for its new Elephant House designed by British architect Sir Norman Foster. The zoo maintains and promotes a number of European breeding programs. Animals exhibited at the zoo that is not housed in any of the main areas include Bactrian camels American flamingos scarlet ibises roseate spoonbills Dalmatian pelicans turkey vultures Humboldt penguins California sea lions black-capped squirrel monkeys chimpanzees and lions.

Rosenborg Castle
Rosenborg Castle is a renaissance castle located in Copenhagen Denmark. The castle was originally built as a country summerhouse in 1606 and is an example of Christian IVs many architectural projects. It was built in the Dutch Renaissance style typical of Danish buildings during this period and has been expanded several times finally evolving into its present condition by the year 1624. Architects Bertel Lange and Hans van Steenwinckel the Younger are associated with the structural planning of the castle.

Danish Architecture Center
Danish Architecture Center is Denmarks national center for the development and dissemination of knowledge about architecture building and urban development.  DAC was founded in 1985 through a collaboration between the Danish Ministry of Culture the Ministry of Economic and Business Affairs and the Realdania foundation.

Frederiksborg Slot
Frederiksborg Castle is a palatial complex in Hillerd Denmark. It was built as a royal residence for King Christian IV of Denmark-Norway in the early 17th century replacing an older castle acquired by Frederick II and becoming the largest Renaissance residence in Scandinavia. On three islets in the Slotssen it is adjoined by a large formal garden in the Baroque style. In line with Flemish and Dutch Renaissance tradition the quadrangular castle covering the entire area of the northern islet is built of red brick with stepped gables towering spires and light sandstone decorations. The symmetry of the main structure is broken by the large bell tower on the Chapel Wing. All three wings are fundamentally independent buildings that have been joined together to form a complex.

Roskilde Cathedral
Roskilde Cathedral in the city of Roskilde on the island of Zealand in eastern Denmark is a cathedral of the Lutheran Church of Denmark. The cathedral is the most important church in Denmark the official royal burial church of the Danish monarchs and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The cathedral is a major tourist attraction bringing in over 165000 visitors annually. its unique architecture. A working church it also hosts concerts throughout the year.

Medical Museion
Medical Museion is a museum and research unit in Copenhagen Denmark dedicated to the history of health and disease in a cultural perspective. Part of the Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences at the University of Copenhagen its principal area of interest is the recent history of the material and iconographic culture of biomedicine. It is based in a listed building from 1787 on Bredgade in Frederiksstaden. The museum is based in a Neoclassical building from 1787 designed by Peter Meyn which used to house Academy of Surgery an institution which was responsible for the education of surgeons in Copenhagen between 1785 and 1842. The central exhibition space is the former auditorium where dissections were carried out as part of the training.

The Royal Library Copenhagen
The Royal Library in Copenhagen is the national library of Denmark and the university library of the University of Copenhagen. It is among the largest libraries in the world and the largest in the Nordic countries. In 2017 it merged with the State and University Library in Aarhus to form a combined national library.

Viking Ship Museum
The Viking Ship Museum in Roskilde is Denmarks national ship museum for ships of the prehistoric and medieval periods. The main focus of the museum is a permanent exhibition of the Skuldelev ships five original Viking ships excavated nearby in 1962. The Viking Ship Museum also conducts research and educates researchers in the fields of maritime history marine archaeology and experimental archaeology. Various academic conferences are held here and there is a research library in association with the museum.

Hirschsprung Collection
The Hirschsprung Collection is an art museum located on Stockholmsgade in Copenhagen Denmark. It is located in a parkland setting in stre Anlg near the Danish National Gallery and houses a large collection of Danish art from the 19th and early 20th centuries. The emphasis is on the Danish Golden Age from 1800 to 1850 but also the Skagen Painters and other representatives of the Modern Breakthrough are well represented. The museum is built around the personal art collection of Heinrich Hirschsprung a tobacco manufacturer and patron of the arts who founded his art collection in 1865. Almost four decades later in 1902 he donated it to the Danish state. It is displayed in a purpose-built Neoclassical museum building designed by Hermann Baage Storck and completed in 1911.

Charlottenborg Palace
Charlottenborg Palace is a large town mansion located on the corner of Kongens Nytorv and Nyhavn in Copenhagen Denmark. Originally built as a residence for Ulrik Frederik Gyldenlve it has served as the base of the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts since its foundation in 1754. Today it also houses Kunsthal Charlottenborg an institution for contemporary art and Danmarks Kunstbibliotek the Royal Art Library. The main wing and two lateral wings were built from 1672 to 1677 probably under the architect Ewert Janssen. In 1783 the mansion was extended with a rear fourth wing designed by Lambert van Haven.

Gefion Fountain
The Gefion Fountain is a large fountain on the harbourfront in Copenhagen Denmark. It features a large-scale group of oxen pulling a plow and being driven by the Norse goddess Gefjon. It is located in the Nordre Toldbod area next to Kastellet and immediately south of Langelinie. The fountain was donated to the city of Copenhagen by the Carlsberg Foundation on the occasion of the brewerys 50-year anniversary. It was originally supposed to be located in the main town square outside the city hall.

City Hall Square Copenhagen
City Hall Square is a public square in the center of Copenhagen Denmark located in front of the Copenhagen City Hall. Its large size central location and affiliation with the city hall make it a popular venue for a variety of events celebrations and demonstrations. It is often used as a central point for measuring distances from Copenhagen. City Hall Square is located at the site of Copenhagens old hay market and the Western City Gate of the Fortifications of Copenhagen. The squares central area is 9800 m. It is often a venue for demonstrations and buskers and several bars and nightclubs are located in the vicinity. Rdhuspladsen also houses one of the citys bus centrals.
Macau
Macau, also famously known as the “Las Vegas of Asia”, is a glamorous blend of Chinese and Portuguese cultures. Macau is a most sought-after tourist destination that offers countless tourist attractions for travelers of all ages and interests. From ancient heritage sites to the picture-perfect skyline, casinos, and Disneyland, you can explore a wide variety of awe-inspiring places to visit in Macau. One of the main take out for tourists in Macau is its world-class casinos. Macau is home to some of the world’s best and largest casinos, which includes MGM Macau, Wynn Macau, and Venetian Macau. These casinos offer countless games, such as blackjack, roulette, slot machines, and baccarat. Even if you don’t play these games, you can visit these casinos to experience the magnificent architecture and splendid interiors. These are one of the top Macau tourist attractions. If you are a history enthusiast, you will not go empty-handed. Macau has plenty of remarkable attractions to offer. To learn about Macau’s rich history, you must visit the city’s Historic Centre. It is one of the must-visit Macau attractions, which is also listed in the UNESCO World Heritage Site. Senado Square is a lovely pedestrian area where you can stroll through the square. Also, tourists can shop and dine here from several outlets. The Island of Taipa is one of the top Macau tourist places to visit, where you spend quality time with yourself. It has several Chinese shops, Portuguese colonial buildings, and a famous horse-racing track. Macau is a place where you can enjoy your holiday to the fullest. Home to world-class shows and performances, Macau offers a full swing to your vacation with acrobatics, diving, and other popular activities. There are several theme parks and amusement centers, such as Macau Tower. It offers experiences like bungee jumping and sky walking. If you go further, there is Macau Museum that gives you an insight into the history. It is one of the most visited Macau tourist spots. You can visit this place with your family and explore the history and culture of Macau. To indulge in some fun activities, you should head to Wynn Palace. It is one of the best places to visit in Macau. You can ride a skycab and see the dancing fountain in its full grandeur. Macau never fails to delight its tourists with entertainment and fun. City of Dreams is one such delightful place to relish a good time. It is a sparkling entertainment zone and is very famous among tourists. Therefore, it is one of the most-loved Macau tourist places. Another beautiful tourist destination in Macau is Coloane Island. This graceful island is home to many cultural and historical attractions. You can even take a memory of your trip home in the form of a souvenir which you can shop here at affordable prices. Among the best Macau tourist spots, Nam Van Lake tops the list. It is the most stunning tourist attraction in Macau and is the largest man-made fountain in Asia. Macau has charmed you enough to plan a vacation. Before going anywhere else, check out what Dook International has in its bucket. We offer the best Macau holiday packages at pocket-friendly rates. Our holiday packages are well-crafted according to all your travel needs. To unravel the mysteries and realities of Macau, you should try our tour packages. No matter what you pick, you will get to experience the best.Bangladesh
Bangladesh, a country in South Asia, is a secret gem waiting to be discovered. Filled with ancient ruins, cultural heritage, vast landscapes, medieval temples, and natural beauty, Bangladesh offers a unique holiday experience. There are many off-the-beaten Bangladesh tourist attractions that you will love exploring. From swarming cities to the serene countryside, Bangladesh boasts incredible experiences. Bangladesh offers a unique blend of cultures that are influenced by Islamic traditions, ancient civilizations, and British colonial history. Dhaka, the capital city of Bangladesh, is the melting pot of architectural marvels. Some of the major Bangladesh attractions include the National Parliament House, the Lalbagh Fort, and Ahsan Manzil. There are a few UNESCO World Heritage Sites, like the historic Mosque City of Bagerhat and the ancient ruins of Paharpur. Besides, Bangladesh has an abundance of natural beauty. The Sundarbans, the UNESCO World Heritage Site, is one of the most popular places to visit in Bangladesh. It is a must-visit site for every wildlife lover. You can get a chance to spot Bengal Tigers, Bird Species, Deer, crocodiles, and many other animals. As you will go further, there is Cox’s Bazaar. It is known for its sparkling Beaches that offer a calm and peaceful escape. You can even indulge in many different water activities. The hilly sites of Bandarban and Rangamati are also spectacular Bangladesh tourist places that offer incredible landscapes, tranquil lakes, and tribal villages. These lush-green hilly regions are best for hiking, trekking, and boat rides.Bangladesh, also known as the land of rivers, has extensive river streams, including the famous Ganga and Brahmaputra. You must take boat trips along the picturesque rivers to explore the mesmerizing riverine landscapes. These boat rides offer a unique experience that allows you to witness floating markets, lush greenery, and rural life. The other Bangladesh tourist attractions are its Wildlife and Bird Sanctuaries. It is a heaven for nature lovers and birdwatchers. The country has many wildlife sanctuaries and national parks that are a treat to visit for nature enthusiasts. One such Bangladesh tourist spot is Lawachara National Park. It is popular for its unique and vast flora and fauna. On the other hand, the wetlands of Tanguar Haor are home to waterbirds that you can watch and take photos of. Apart from natural wonders and attractions, Bangladesh’s festivals and events are no less than attractions. If you visit Bangladesh, immerse yourself in its vibrant festivals and delicious cuisines. These colorful celebrations of festivals draw the attention of many tourists and indulge them in mouthwatering food. Also, you will find Bangladesh people extremely warm and welcoming. They are always eager to communicate with new people and assist you through anything. Overall, Bangladesh is an exquisite tourist destination that you must visit.Bangladesh offers countless authentic experiences for intrepid travelers. If you plan to visit Bangladesh, check out Dook’s holiday packages. Every Bangladesh tour package can get customized as per your travel needs. Our travel packages include every Bangladesh attractions that you should visit. So, pack your stuff and embark on a beautiful journey to this incredible country.
Shilaidaha Rabindra Kuthibari


Daulatdia


Dhakeshwari National Temple


Ramna Kali Temple


Chandranath Temple, Bangladesh

Oman
Oman, a country in the Middle East, is home to cultural charms, architectural gems, and historical marvels. Although not many people consider this destination when planning a vacation, it has something you won’t forget. Filled with diverse landscapes, Oman tourist attractions, and vibrant culture, Oman is becoming a popular destination for travelers seeking the Arabian experience. Oman’s hidden gems tend to draw tourists' attention. One of the reasons why most travelers visit this country is because of its Kind locals. Besides the famous Oman attractions, the generosity, friendliness, and hospitality of Omanis are what attract visitors to Oman. Oman’s culture and heritage are the next best thing that captivates the heart of tourists. Omani culture is one of the most fascinating cultures in the Arab region. Another reason why travelers choose Oman is its tranquil nature. There are many popular places to visit in Oman for relaxation and calmness. It is also one of the cleanest countries in the world. Food and shopping are the other miscellaneous factors that add to its tourists count. Moreover, if you are delighted by desert landscapes, historic forts, mountain ranges, and warm beaches, make Oman your next travel destination. Muscat, the capital city, is home to many historic wonders. It is one of the stunning places to visit in Oman. Nestled between deserts and mountains, Muscat charms many visitors. From Qasr Al Alam Royal Palace to the twin forts of Al Jalali & Mirani, there are many ancient heritages to explore. Wahiba Sands, also known as Sharqiya Sands, is one of the most fascinating Oman tourist spots. This desert offers an unforgettable experience with its rolling sand and golden hues. During the sunset, the color of the sand turns into a coppery orange shade. You can indulge in many adventurous activities here, which include dune bashing, trekking, overnight camping, and other sand sports. If you are looking for a secluded and quiet experience, Masirah Island is an ideal place. Among the top Oman tourist places, Masirah Island offers numerous watersports, wildlife, turtles, and history. Al Seeb is a coastal city- popularly known for its gardens, architecture, and beaches. It is an idyllic romantic getaway where you can spend quality time with your loved one. At this beautiful destination, you can enjoy sitting by the lake, watching waterfalls, seeing the aquarium, and getting a glimpse of Omani weddings. Musandam Fjords is a majestic wonder that offers a treat to all nature lovers. It is one of the most prominent Oman tourist spots for scuba divers. Its clear water and rich sea life is the main reason why so many scuba divers flock to this destination. All-in-all, Oman is a hidden pearl that must be unearthed from every corner. If you make a plan to visit Oman, get the best tour packages from Dook International. We offer exciting Oman tour packages that include all the tourist attractions mentioned above at budget-friendly prices. You must visit this destination at least once to experience the richness of Oman culture and the hospitality of locals. So, pack your stuff and leave home for a fulfilling adventure.
Oman


Nasser Rashed Lootah Masjid


Bait Al Zubair Museum


Sultan's Palace for occasions

Lebanon
Lebanon, a small Mediterranean country, is a captivating destination with an impressive history, rich culture, and natural beauty. Nestled on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea, Lebanon is an exciting tourist destination for travelers who love vibrant culture, ancient history, and breathtaking landscapes. Brimming with stunning Lebanon tourist attractions, this country captivates the heart of many visitors with its charm. Despite its small size, it offers an abundance of experiences that will enchant your wanderlust soul. From its cosmopolitan cities to ancient ruins to awe-inspiring coastlines and beautiful mountain ranges, there is something for every traveler. There are not one or two reasons to visit this gem, but countless. Besides Lebanon tourist places, there is food, nightlife, hikes, fashion, and whatnot to experience. Once you are here, the diverse landscapes of Lebanon will not let you leave. It gives you a chance to make your social profile enchanting through vibrant photographs of this place. The people of Lebanon are so resilient and friendly. They offer hospitality like no other. With the help of the locals, you can explore more of Lebanon tourist spots. So, if you are in Lebanon, don’t hesitate to talk to them. They are welcoming and know how to have a good time. As you know, Lebanon’s nightlife is lively- you will witness never-seen-before party scenes here. Lebanese knows how to party all night- from small gatherings to nightclubs to pubs. With a rich history, there are one of the best historical places to visit in Lebanon. There are many historical treasures to discover in Lebanon. One of the most enchanting places to visit in Lebanon is Beirut. Known as the Paris of the Middle East, Beirut offers a unique blend of new and old. This capital city of Beirut seamlessly combines rich cultural heritage with modernity. Here, you can explore the bustling streets, visit the National Museum, and try out the delicious Lebanese cuisine.  Besides the urban landscape, don’t forget to admire the natural beauty of Lebanon. Lebanon’s coastline extends to 225 kilometers, offering breathtaking views of the Mediterranean Sea. Along the coast, there are sandy beaches that pin as one of the best Lebanon tourist attractions. You can relax by the beach and even indulge in water sports like snorkeling, diving, etc. Not to mention, the mountain range of Lebanon is unbelievable. The magnificent Mount Lebanon and awe-inspiring Qadisha Valley are a treat to nature lovers. These rugged terrains lead to interesting hiking and trekking trails that offer stunning vistas & hidden gems. If you want to surrender to nature, these mountain ranges are one of the best Lebanon tourist places. Moreover, you can enjoy outdoor adventure activities. This country has numerous galleries and museums that stand as great Lebanon attractions for tourists to explore. Lebanon is a hidden treasure that is waiting to be discovered.If you plan to visit this off-beat country, don’t forget to check out Dook’s tour packages. We have exciting Lebanon tour packages that include all the spectacular tourist attractions. These packages are available at pocket-friendly rates. Whether you want to explore ancient ruins, learn about history, admire nature, or indulge in activities, Lebanon will leave you with so many choices. So, why are you waiting? Go pack your bags and leave for the adventure.Senegal
Senegal, a country in West Africa, is a beautiful tourist destination that offers a vast natural landscape, vibrant culture, and colonial heritage. Home to several UNESCO World Heritage Sites, this country has numerous Senegal tourist attractions to explore. It doesn’t have to boast its marvelous attractions as it already allures tourists with the promise of spectacular nature, charming towns, and affectionate locals. From teeming cities to sparkling beaches, colonial heritage, ancient ruins, and national parks, Senegal has something for every traveler. There are many reasons why Senegal is a top choice for travelers who want a quiet escape. You can even take a journey into the past and learn about the country’s history. Besides the Senegal tourist places, the country’s nightlife is one of the main highlights. You will find it as enchanting as its day-life. Heart-warming encounters with locals and other visitors are what make the time more enjoyable. Another highlight of this country is its capital city- Dakar. Often known for its lively atmosphere and bustling street markets, Dakar is a perfect fusion of culture and creativity. Dakar falls among the list of best places to visit in Senegal. From colonial architecture to vibrant art scenes, Dakar has so much to offer your wanderlust soul. If you are a history enthusiast who likes to dig, Goree Island is a place of wonder for you. It is a must-visit destination if you want to learn about Senegal’s past. This UNESCO World Heritage Site was once known as West Africa’s slavery capital. Today, tourists come here to explore the House of Slaves. This museum pays tribute to the dark history. Goree Island is one of the best Senegal tourist spots that offer an impactful experience. It allows you to reflect on the past and celebrate the strength of the Senegalese people. The natural beauty of Senegal enchants every nature lover. The Pink Lake is one of the natural wonders of Senegal that attracts a lot of tourists. It gets its name from the pink hue brought about by the high salt content in the water. This lake is among the other spectacular Senegal attractions that offer a truly unique experience to visitors. Another natural treat in this list is Saloum Delta. It is an awe-inspiring ecosystem of mangroves, wildlife, and islands. You can embark on a boat tour through Saloum Delta to witness birds, dolphins, and other marine life. How can someone forget to visit Senegal’s stunning coastlines? No vacation is complete without experiencing the charm of its beaches. The town of Saly is one of the best places to visit in Senegal for a resort destination. Offering pristine sandy beaches, a range of stunning accommodations, and an array of water activities, Saly captivates the attention of many tourists throughout the year. Be it wildlife, coastal towns, culinary experience, or music, Senegal is a secret gem of Africa that you must unearth.If reading about Senegal’s aura, you decide to visit, do check out Dook’s tour packages. We have attractive offers on Senegal travel packages. Our Senegal tour packages offer everything, including each of the above tourist attractions. All you need to do is get ready for an out-of-the-world experience.
Leopold Sedar-Senghor Stadium


Joal Fadiout

Myanmar
Myanmar is a captivating Southeast Asian country. It offers rich history, tradition, culture, and landscapes for travelers to explore. Myanmar is a treasure trove of authentic experiences. Filled with ancient temples, vibrant markets, Myanmar tourist attractions, warm hospitality, and diverse ethnic groups, Myanmar captivates the heart of every tourist with its charm. Be its city life or ancient sights, Myanmar has so much in its lapse for you. The city of Bagan is one of the most iconic Myanmar tourist places. With over 2000 ancient temples and pagodas, Bagan offers a surreal experience to visitors. Witnessing a beautiful sunrise or sunset here will be a truly magical experience. The glowing panorama of sunset leaves a mystical glow on the ancient structures that creates a breathtaking landscape. Another one of the must-visit places to visit in Myanmar is the Yangon. Yangon is the largest city in the country, home to the famous Shwedagon Pagoda- a gleaming golden stupa that stands tall as a symbol of spirituality and national pride. You can explore the bustling streets of Yangon, taste mouthwatering street food, walk into colorful markets, or immerse yourself in the vibrant local culture. If you look for peace in this country, you will have it in abundance. There are many natural wonders, such as Inle Lake. This lake is a secret gem of Myanmar that should not be missed. Settled amidst the rolling hills, this lake is one of the most stunning Myanmar tourist attractions. If you are visiting Inle Lake, make sure you take a boat tour to discover the floating villages, serene pagodas, and traditional markets.Mandalay, an enchanting destination, is the cultural heart of Myanmar. Steeped in history, the city offers a beautiful glimpse into the country’s rich heritage. It is one of the best places to visit in Myanmar, where you can get panoramic views of the city and admire the exquisite Burmese architecture. Taung Kalat is one of the most exciting Myanmar attractions, built atop a volcano plug. It is a blissful Buddhist monastery that attracts a lot of visitors who climb 777 steps to reach here. Once you scale up to this monastery, you will get to admire the breathtaking views. Golden Rock is one of the most spectacular Myanmar tourist attractions. It is a sight to behold at 1100 meters above sea level. Locals believe that this rock has been held in place through the miracle of Buddha. While mounting to this Golden Rock, you will enjoy mesmerizing views and Buddha Shrines. While Myanmar is still a lesser-known destination among tourists, it is continuously striving to become an authentic tourist hot spot. However, Myanmar never fails to allure travelers. If you plan a vacation to this country, take Dook International’s assistance. We have many delightful customized Myanmar tour packages that you can personalize. We strive to give you an unforgettable holiday experience in Myanmar. Our tour packages bring you all the hidden and unattempted adventures. So, end your search for a fulfilling holiday with Dook.
Kya Khat


Shwe Tha Lyaung Hall


Kyaik Pun Pagoda


Kanbawza Street


Kanbawzathadi Golden Palace


Thanlyin


Kyaik Khauk Pagoda


Botahtaung


Bo Bo Gyi Hall


Karaweik Palace


Yangon


Chaukhtatgyi Buddha Temple


Kabar Aye Pagoda Road

Ethiopia
Ethiopia, an enchanting country in Africa, is home to diverse landscapes, vibrant cultures, ancient civilizations, joyful festivals, and plenty of tourist attractions. It is a place for so many things- adventures, breathtaking nature, cultural exploration, and immersive experiences. Besides the marvelous Ethiopia tourist attractions, there are incredible scenic landscapes, tasty food, plenty of beautiful festivals, breathtaking waterfalls, history, and much more. One of the reasons why most people love to come back to this country is its hospitable locals. The warm and welcoming people of Ethiopia make tourist time wonderful here. The diverse wildlife of this country is one of the stunning Ethiopia attractions. As you know, Africa is known for its wildlife, and Ethiopia is no exception. It is home to unique and unseen wildlife like the mountain nyala, Gelada baboon, Ethiopian wolf, and more. It is also one of the exceptional places to visit in Ethiopia for birdwatchers. With over 850 bird species, tourists can witness so many beautiful birds. Lalibela is one of the renowned UNESCO World Heritage Sites that are home to magnificent brilliance. It houses 11 rock-hewn churches that stand as a testament to the country’s architectural blaze and religious devotion. Exploring these churches will take you on a journey back in time, immersing you in the awe-inspiring craftsmanship of ancient Ethiopia. The Simien Mountains National Park is one of the incredible Ethiopia tourist spots for nature enthusiasts. This national park boasts deep gorges, unique wildlife, and dramatic cliffs. If you hike through the park, you will be rewarded with breathtaking views, soulful landscapes, and encounters with friendly locals. If you are a history buff, Axum is the perfect place to visit. This historical city is one of the famous places to visit in Ethiopia. It is home to ancient ruins and archeological sites that provide useful insights into Ethiopia’s past. Besides this, Ethiopia is also known for its cultural traditions. Tourists can encounter vibrant tribal ceremonies and interact with different communities. Besides Ethiopia tourist places, there are Ethiopian cuisines with rich flavors that delight the soul of tourists. The country’s culinary heritage is extraordinary and authentic. If you love coffee, you should experience the Ethiopian coffee ceremony. Blue Nile Falls is one of the most spectacular Ethiopia tourist attractions. This waterfall is one of the biggest falls that you can witness on the African Continent. When the water drops, it creates a sort of smoke that turns into a misty environment. As a result, it creates a picturesque panorama. No matter what you seek in Ethiopia, you will get to experience everything. Want to go on a trip to Ethiopia? If yes, take the help of Dook International. We have thrilling ongoing offers on Ethiopia tour packages that you can claim. Our travel packages are customizable, which means you can personalize them. So, book your much-awaited holiday with us.
Mount Entoto


Blue Nile Falls


Debre Birhan


Selassie Church (ሥላሴ ቤተክርስቲያን)


Queen of Sheba Eilat


Archaeological Site of the Tombs of the Kings


Axum Tsion St. Mary


Asheton Maryam Monastery አሽተን ማርያም ገዳም

North Korea
North Korea is an enigmatic tourist destination that offers unfamiliar territories to explore. This majestic country boasts cultural heritage and North Korea tourist attractions, making it more fascinating to tourists. North Korea has a rich historical and cultural significance dating back thousands of years. North Korea never fails to offer a glimpse into its interesting past, from Koguryo Tombs to the Kumsusan Palace of the Sun. You can even immerse yourself in traditional Korean culture by watching colorful mass performances and experiencing customs & traditions. The enriched culture of this country is one of the North Korea attractions. Besides being a secretive country, North Korea is home to unparalleled landscapes. These breathtaking landscapes allow you to make your social feed colorful and vibrant. Mount Paektu is an active volcano, which is one of the surreal North Korea tourist spots. It has the highest peak on the Korean Peninsula. It draws the attention of many travelers who loves to hike. Moreover, nature enthusiasts can also marvel at the scenic Myohyang Mountains, pristine Kumgangsan, and the beautiful Lake Chon. Nature is itself one of the stunning North Korea tourist attractions that offer travelers an opportunity to explore and admire the beauty of nature. North Korea’s architecture is another marvelous brilliance that adds charm and grandeur to the country’s style. The highlight of North Korea’s architectural excellence is the iconic Ryugyong Hotel. This massive pyramid-shaped formation is one of the famous North Korea attractions. Other unique towering architectures are The Juche Tower and the Arch of Triumph, which are notable landmarks of North Korea. These remarkable architectures commemorate North Korea’s ideology and national achievements. These architectural marvels offer tourists an insight into the country’s emphasis on self-reliance. One of the most iconic North Korea tourist places is the Grand Monument on Mansu Hill. It has two 20m-long bronze statues of Kim II Sung and Kim Jong II. Many tourists visit here to learn about the history of this place. North Korea boasts some beautiful beaches. The country’s Pacific coastline is lined with many beautiful beaches. These beaches are one of the best places to visit in North Korea if you want to have a quaint vacation. The long stretches of sand, dramatic cliffs, rock outlets, and abundance of nature are what make a beach-lover happy. For a tranquil experience, you should not miss out on visiting Lake Sijung. This lake is a perfect place to rejuvenate your soul and relax. North Korea may have not been on the list of travelers yet, but it has the potential to charm every traveler across the globe. If you want to visit this unique country for its off-the-beaten experiences, take the help of Dook International. We have attractive North Korea tour packages that you can customize as per your travel needs. Our tour packages offer exciting experiences and North Korea tourist places to visit for a fulfilling vacation. So, plan a holiday in North Korea with Dook.
Geumsusan Taeyang Gungjeon
The Kumsusan Palace of the Sun formerly the Kumsusan Memorial Palace and sometimes referred to as the Kim Il-sung Mausoleum is a building near the northeast corner of the city of Pyongyang that serves as the mausoleum for Kim Il-sung the founder of North Korea and for his son Kim Jong-il both posthumously designated as eternal leaders of North Korea. The palace was built in 1976 as the Kumsusan Assembly Hall and served as Kim Il-sungs official residence. Following the elder Kims death in 1994 Kim Jong-il had the building renovated and transformed into his fathers mausoleum. It is believed that the conversion cost at least 100 million. Some sources put the figure as high as 900 million. Inside the palace Kim Il-sungs embalmed body lies inside a clear glass sarcophagus. His head rests on a Korean-style pillow and he is covered by the flag of the Workers Party of Korea. Kim Jong-il is now on display in a room close to his fathers remains and positioned in a very similar way. At 115000 square feet Kumsusan is the largest mausoleum dedicated to a Communist leader and the only one to house the remains of multiple people.

Workers' Party Foundation Monument


Kim Il Sung Square


Grand People's Study House


National Martyrs Cemetery


Mansudae Fountain Park


Juche Tower

Iceland
Iceland, a land of fire and ice, is a country of many things. It is a place where you can find active volcanoes and ice glaciers side by side. Iceland is a country where people rarely see any light during winter, and the sun keeps shining until midnight during the summer. This country is God’s rarest phenomenon, spreading magic everywhere for visitors in the form of Iceland tourist attractions. Iceland is a country of colorful contrasts, where everywhere you look has something timeless to experience. From dense grasslands to mighty mountains, hot volcanoes to icy glaciers, exotic hot springs to impressive islands, Iceland has it all. Among the most magnificent countries to visit, Iceland is an absolute treat to all travelers. This country doesn’t only fall on the bucket list of thrill-seekers but also nature lovers. There are many ways to enjoy this sparsely populated country- you can either rent a car or take the help of a guide (who can make you see the best). Among the most popular Iceland tourist places, there are also northern lights, ATV trekking, sightseeing, and natural wonders that you can witness. If you ask us to mention a few reasons to visit Iceland, we will give you a long list. From midnight summer to aurora borealis, whale watching to hot springs, outdoor adventures to the geothermal lake, reasons to visit Iceland don’t just end. Iceland tourist attractions are one of the main reasons why so many tourists visit this charming country. Beginning from Reykjavik, the capital city of Iceland. This capital city is one of the most attractive cities in Iceland. Consisting of numerous restaurants, museums, attractions, entertainment, and public art, Reykjavik is the heart of Iceland. The best way to explore this city is to take a stroll to witness some of the iconic locations. Have you ever seen a geothermal spa? If not, Iceland will make you see one. The Blue Lagoon, the most remarkable geothermal spa, is one of the must-see Iceland attractions. Your trip to Iceland is incomplete without coming here. Gullfoss Waterfall is another magic to this country, which is the world’s best waterfalls. This waterfall offers a spine-chilling spectacle to enjoy amid nature’s lap. Whale Watching is a quite common outdoor activity in Iceland that happens year-round. It is nature’s most stunning spectacle. Skaftafell Ice Cave is one of the most-visited Iceland tourist spots. Vatnajokull National Park has so much to offer to its visitors- glaciers and ice caves. Most of the tourists visit this national park to explore Skaftafell Ice Cave. You are in Iceland- how can you forget about the Northern lights? Aurora Borealis, or the Northern Lights as you call it, are among the most famous Iceland tourist attractions. If you are in Iceland, don’t miss out on watching nature’s greatest phenomenon. Nonetheless, Iceland is one of the best places to visit in the world. Plan your Iceland vacation with Dook to get timeless assistance on your holiday. Our Iceland tour packages are one of a kind and include every iconic Iceland attraction. So, don’t waste your time looking for the best holiday packages anywhere- Dook has exciting offers for you.
ingvellir National Park IC
ingvellir was the site of the Aliing the annual parliament of Iceland from 930AD until the last session held at ingvellir in 1798AD. Since 1881 the parliament has been located within Alingishsi in Reykjavik. ingvellir is now a national park in the municipality of Blskgabygg in southwestern Iceland about 40 km northeast of Icelands capital Reykjavk. ingvellir is a site of historical cultural and geological significance and is one of the most popular tourist destinations in Iceland. The park lies in a rift valley that marks the crest of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge and the boundary between the North American and Eurasian tectonic plates. To its south lies ingvallavatn the largest natural lake in Iceland. ingvellir National Park was founded in 1930 marking the 1000th anniversary of the Althing. The park was later expanded to protect the diverse and natural phenomena in the surrounding area and was designated as a World Heritage Site in 2004.

Geysir
Geysir sometimes known as The Great Geysir is a geyser in southwestern Iceland. It was the first geyser described in a printed source and the first known to modern Europeans. The English word geyser derives from Geysir. The name Geysir itself is derived from the Icelandic verb geysa the verb from Old Norse. Geysir lies in the Haukadalur valley on the slopes of Laugarfjall hill which is also the home to Strokkur geyser about 50 metres south. Eruptions at Geysir can hurl boiling water up to 70 metres in the air. However eruptions may be infrequent and have in the past stopped altogether for years at a time.

Hallgrmskirkja
Hallgrmskirkja is a Lutheran parish church in Reykjavk Iceland. At 74.5 meters tall it is the largest church in Iceland and among the tallest structures in the country. Known for its distinctively curved spire and side wings it has been described as having become an important symbol for Icelands national identity since its completion in 1986 The church is named after the Icelandic poet and cleric Hallgrmur Ptursson author of the Passion Hymns.

Harpa
Harpa is a concert hall and conference center in Reykjavk Iceland. The opening concert was held on May 4 2011. The building features a distinctive colored glass facade inspired by the basalt landscape of Iceland. Harpa was designed by the Danish firm Henning Larsen Architects in cooperation with Danish-Icelandic artist Olafur Eliasson. The structure consists of a steel framework clad with geometric-shaped glass panels of different colors. The building was originally part of a redevelopment of the Austurhfn area dubbed World Trade Center Reykjavk which was temporarily abandoned when the 2008 Icelandic financial crisis took hold. The development was originally intended to include a 400-room hotel luxury apartments retail units restaurants a car park and the new headquarters of the Icelandic bank Landsbanki.

Keri
Keri is a volcanic crater lake located in the Grmsnes area in south Iceland along the Golden Circle. It is one of several crater lakes in the area known as Icelands Western Volcanic Zone which includes the Reykjanes peninsula and the Langjkull Glacier created as the land moved over a localized hotspot but it is the one that has the most visually recognizable caldera still intact. The caldera like the other volcanic rock in the area is composed of a red volcanic rock. The caldera itself is approximately 55 m deep 170 m wide and 270 m across. Keris caldera is one of the three most recognizable volcanic craters because at approximately 3000 years old it is only half the age of most of the surrounding volcanic features. The other two are Seyishlar and Kerhll. While most of the crater is steep-walled with little vegetation one wall is sloped more gently and blanketed with a deep moss and can be descended fairly easily. The lake itself is fairly shallow but due to minerals from the soil is an opaque and strikingly vivid aquamarine. Land owners charge an entrance fee to see the crater of 400 ISK.

Perlan
Perlan is a prominent landmark in the Icelandic capital of Reykjavk. It is situated on the top of Oskjuhlo hill. It was originally only a cluster of hot water tanks but in 1991 it was converted into a building open to the public and now hosts an exhibition a planetarium an observation deck a restaurant and a cafe. In 1939 a single hot water tank was constructed on skjuhl hill in Reykjavk where Perlan stands today. It is 61 meters above sea level which gives enough pressure to push water up to the 10th floor of a building 38 meters above sea level. That sufficed to supply water anywhere in Reykjavk even to the hill where Hallgrmskirkja church stands today. In the next two decades five more tanks rose beside the first one. They were torn down and rebuilt in the late eighties.

Sun Voyager
The Sun Voyager is a sculpture by Jn Gunnar rnason located next to the Sbraut road in Reykjavk Iceland. Sun Voyager is described as a dreamboat or an ode to the Sun. The artist intended it to convey the promise of undiscovered territory a dream of hope progress and freedom. The work is constructed of stainless steel and stands on a circle of granite slabs surrounded by so-called town-hall concrete. It was constructed in accordance with Arnasons enlarged full-scale drawing of Sun Voyager and was overseen by his assistant the artist Kristin E. Hrafnsson. The engineering of the sculpture was supervised by the technologist Sigurjn Yngvason in close cooperation with rnason himself and the construction was carried out by Reynir Hjlmtsson and his assistant.

Strokkur
Strokkur is a fountain-type geyser located in a geothermal area beside the Hvt River in Iceland in the southwest part of the country east of Reykjavk. It typically erupts every 610 minutes. Its usual height is 1520 metres although it can sometimes erupt up to 40 metres high.

National Museum Of Iceland
The National Museum of Iceland was established on 24 February 1863 with Jn rnason the first curator of the Icelandic collection previously kept in Danish museums. The second curator Sigurur Gumundsson advocated the creation of an antiquarian collection and the museum was called the Antiquarian Collection until 1911. Before settling at its present location at Suurgata 41 101 Reykjavk in 1950 it was housed in various Reykjavk attics finally for forty years in the attic of the National Library building on Hverfisgata. A key object in the permanent exhibition is the Valjfsstaur door a celebrated carving depicting a version of the Lion-Knight legend where a knight slays a dragon thus freeing a lion that becomes his companion.

Gufunesflatir
Gufunes is a historical estate and park for sculptures and artwork in northeastern Reykjavk. Today it lies within the Grafarvogur part of the city located to the southwest and south of Eidsvik Cove and Geldinganes Headland. It contains some 25 sculptures by Hallsteinn Sigursson amongst others.

Lgafellslaug
Lgafellslaug is a swimming pool in Mosfellsbr built-in 2007. Contracts were made with Nsi for the construction and operation of the pool but after bankruptcy new owners took over the operation.

Skógafoss


Hraunfossar
Hraunfossar is a series of waterfalls formed by rivulets streaming over a distance of about 900 metres out of the Hallmundarhraun a lava field which flowed from an eruption of one of the volcanoes lying under the glacier Langjkull. The waterfalls pour into Hvt from ledges of less porous rock in the lava. The name comes from the Icelandic word for lava and the word for waterfalls. The Hraunfossar are situated near Hsafell and Reykholt and the Vgelmir lava tube is close by. Literally a stones throw upstream from Hraunfossar there is another waterfall called Barnafoss. Its name the waterfall of the children comes from an accident which is said to have taken place here in former times. There was a natural bridge over the waterfall and two children from a nearby farm fell to their deaths crossing the river on the bridge. Afterwards the grief-struck mother had the bridge destroyed.
Laos
Laos, the Southeast Asian Country, is a blissful tourist destination. It is a secret gem among its famous neighbors like Cambodia, Thailand, and Vietnam. Keeping aside popular Laos tourist attractions, there’s so much to explore. From rolling hills to flowing rivers, lush jungles to charming villages, art to architecture, customs to cultures, Laos has everything that you may want to experience. Some of Laos's most incredible features are temples, caves, waterfalls, mountains, adventures, and forests. It is home to almost 49 ethnic groups that influence the country’s food, culture, traditions, and festivals. Every region of the country is adorned with pretty landscapes and an inviting atmosphere. If you are in this country, you will never run out of places to visit in Laos. There are so many natural attractions and historical monuments that you can explore throughout your vacation. A visit to this marvelous place is like going back in time. Most tourist draws here for the laid-back lifestyle. Simply, it is one of those places that will captivate your heart. Besides famous Laos tourist places, there are plenty of adventures that you can enjoy. You can wander deep into the forest and unearth the natural beauty of Luang Namtha. Trekking to Luang Namtha is like escaping to a new world. Kuang Si Falls is one of the most beautiful Laos attractions that catch everyone’s heart with its surreal beauty. This three-tiered waterfall is located in the heart of the Jungle, enclosed by jagged limestone cliffs and lush green vegetation. You can even hike to the top of Kuang Si Falls to capture the epic views over the countryside. Vientiane City, the capital of Laos, is one of the best places to visit in Laos. You can take a tour of this capital city to understand the history and culture of the country. While touring the city, you will witness many famous Laos tourist attractions, including Wat Si Saket, Buddha Park, Patuxay Monument, and Phra Keo. Sinouk Coffee Plantation is one of the stunning Laos tourist spots that you can tour. A trip to this coffee plantation in southern Laos will be one of the most unforgettable experiences you will have in this country. If you want to unearth the unspoiled natural beauty of Laos, you can take a boat ride through the famous 400 islands at the southern tip of the country. The reward of this surreal journey will be to experience ancient Laos customs and enjoy the picturesque views of the Mekong River. The Kong Lor Caves is one of the best Laos tourist places where you can learn about the local geology. You can take a boat ride through the caves and get to know about the different geological formations. Besides, many other Laos attractions are there that you must explore, such as Ancient Wat Phu, Luang Prabang Temples, Nong Khiaw, and others.Plan your tour in this enchanting country with our Laos tour packages. We have enticing travel packages with pocket-friendly prices. Our packages include every tourist attraction that you can discover on your trip. So, what are you looking for? Pack your stuff and leave home.
Wat Si Muang


Patuxay Monument


Jang Cave


Vang Vieng


Pak Ou Caves ຖ້ຳຕິ່ງ


Wat Siphoutthabath

Fiji
Fiji, a blissful South Pacific Island, is an ideal tropical getaway for island hoppers. With over 300 islands, you will find endless Fiji tourist attractions to explore. This slice of heaven tops the bucket list of destinations of every traveller. From relaxing on the beach to watching marvellous sunsets & sunrises, eating scrumptious seafood, indulging in adrenaline activities, and hopping on islands, Fiji satisfies your wandering soul with calmness. Fiji is still most prominently known as the hidden secret of the South Pacific. It offers something to every kind of traveller- nature lovers, family vacationers, and honeymooners. From luxury to serenity, wellness retreat to tranquillity, and water adventures to vast landscapes, Fiji attractions are endless in number. Be it Fiji tourist places, joyful culture, elated hospitality, or underwater wonderlands- it has everything. Fiji is a perfect island getaway, filled with remote islands, small resorts, tropical landscapes, rich culture, untouched natural beaches, unique fauna, friendly locals, delicious food, and much more. This picture-perfect island will give you countless opportunities to capture the most stunning views and landscapes of your life. Some of the best Fiji tourist spots are Fiji Museum, Sri Siva Subramaniya Swami Temple, Sigatoka Sand Dunes, Musket Cove Marina, etc. Every attraction has a significant relevance attached that captivates visitors’ attention more. Moreover, Fijian cuisine will make your taste bud smile. Fijian cuisines are delectable, and their taste is something you have never tasted before. You can even find the Indian flavours infused with Fiji flavours. Denarau Island is the most preferred tourist hot spot, where tourists can enjoy shopping, spa retreat, delicious meals, and a game of golf. If you want to buy souvenirs, you will find a range of things here. From wooden cava bowls, jewellery, Fijian sarongs, and shell knick-knacks, you will get everything here. Fiji Museum, one of the main Fiji tourist attractions, is the best place to learn about this island’s history and fascinating culture. Set in Thurston Gardens, Fiji Museum exhibits the culture of the Indigenous Fijians, Fiji’s natural history, British colonial history, and much more. Bouma National Heritage Park is a nature lover’s treat in Fiji. It is one of the best Fiji tourist spots that offer an abundance of natural beauty, hiking trails, and bird-watching. Sri Siva Subramaniya Swami Temple is a renowned Hindu temple in the Southern Hemisphere that draws devotees' and tourists’ attention. The Indian artists decorated the temple in its vivid coat and created breathtaking roof frescoes, adding more beauty to its overall appearance. If you want to relish precious time on a secluded island, then you should go to Robinson Crusoe Island. This remote island boasts a tranquil vibe, soft sandy beaches, and multiple water sports. Unarguably, it is one of the best places to visit in Fiji. Besides these main Fiji attractions, many beach-hopping opportunities, water activities, and rejuvenation retreats are available for tourists. If it has charmed you enough to plan a trip to Fiji, you must check out Dook tour packages. We offer enticing discounts on Fiji tour packages that you shouldn’t miss. Dook also takes care of visas, accommodation, adventure activities, and other related assistance on your trip. So, what are you waiting for? Book that much-awaited adventure in Fiji with Dook.Peru
Peru has many contrasts- history, culture, adventure, and ancient highlights. Having an endless spectrum of possibilities for a keen traveler, Peru is everyone’s favorite destination. Peru tourist attractions start with Machu Picchu goes further with Lake Titicaca. From breathtaking landscapes to beaches to buzzing nightlife to scenic lakes to sun-worshiping Incas, there are so many things you can enjoy in Peru. This South American country is a unique, multicultural, and colorful destination that is filled with plenty of Peru tourist spots. It is a country that offers you vast landscapes to admire, cultural influences to experience, outdoor activities to keep you thrilled, and beaches to allow you to sit back & relax. The diverse land of Peru features astounding biodiversity, archeological sites, Amazon forests, Andean highlands, Sacred Valley, and more. Whether you are a history buff or a nature lover, Peru will never disappoint your desire to have the best vacation. It is that one destination that has been under the radar for many travelers. Adventure enthusiasts will love the thrilling outdoor activities, food lovers will devour the best South American cuisines, history nerds will explore the untouched ancient sites, and beach-hoppers will have sun-soaked days. Besides the Peru attractions, there are lots of Instagrammable landscapes that you applaud and upload on your feed. Peru will fill you with wonder in every corner, from golden dunes to colorful vistas to snow-capped mountains to awe-inspiring canyons to jaw-dropping glaciers and whatnot. You can even indulge in some retail therapy with colorful handicrafts, souvenirs, and textiles. Machu Picchu is one of the world’s wonders that captivates the attention of keen travelers. There lies the Inca City of Machu Picchu is one of the most popular cities. The Inca Trail is one of the main highlights of the city. It offers a scenic hike and is one of the most rewarding things to do in Peru. While strolling through the streets of Cusco, you can admire the old colonial buildings lining the narrow streets. The church of Santo Domingo is one of the must-see Peru tourist attractions in Cusco. Lake Titicaca is another marvel of Peru, boasting sparkling blue waters. Surrounded by terrace hills and small villages, the place offers beautiful scenery and culture. You can take a boat trip around the lake to appreciate the floating beauty of this lake. Further, The Sacred Valley is one of the best places to visit in Peru that is worth exploring. The highlights of this valley are Pisac Ruins and the Sunday Market in Pisac. The Cordillera Blanca is a spectacular sight in Peru that is surrounded by mountains and valleys. It draws the attention of many climbers, hikers, and adventurer lovers. Peru is a place full of secret gems that you may not find anywhere else in the world. Now that you know what to explore in this magnificent gem of South America, plan a vacation in Peru with Dook. We offer enchanting Peru tour packages with all the famous Peru tourist places you should visit. Fly to Peru and have the best vacation of your life.
Qorikancha


Plaza de Armas Arequipa


Huayna Picchu


Inca Fortress Hostal


Church of the Society of Jesus


San Lázaro


Main Square


Yanahuara


Carmen Alto


Pampa de Arrieros


Reserva Nacional Pampa Cañahuas


Yanque


Cathedral Museum


Aguada Blanca


Lima Main Square


Museo Banco de México


Santo Domingo


National Museum of the Archaeology, Anthropology, and History of Peru, Lima


Larco Museum

Argentina
Argentina, the biggest country in South America, is a dynamic destination with skyscrapers, long ocean beaches, thriving vineyards, and alpine lakes. Known for its history, culture, football, tranquil wilderness, majestic waterfalls, and soaring mountains, it is one of the keen tourist destinations. Whether you seek to unearth the untouched Argentina tourist attractions or be part of its rich culture, you will enjoy this side of South America in abundance. Being one of the largest countries in South America, there are vast lands of adventure and nature to cover on your holiday. Filled with an array of Argentina tourist spots, it is a country of many wonders. From historical sites to museums, nightclubs, restaurants, and mesmerizing panoramas, Argentina brims with magic all around. One of the main reasons why people love being here is its wine. Yes, wine is one of the main Argentina attractions. It is the sixth biggest wine-producing country in the world. You can even indulge in wine tours and tastings. Besides the Argentina tourist places, the one thing that visitors love about this beautiful country is horses and Gauchos. Ponies are a significant part of Argentina's culture. If you are in Argentina, you will see activities like polo sport. Argentina even boasts a lot of winter activities. You can indulge in skiing, sledding, and snowboarding. Besides winter activities, tourists can also relish kayaking, fishing, and boating. Among the other reasons for visiting Argentina, one of the most buzzing is its festivals. Argentina is a country that never stops celebrating. Therefore, it hosts multiple different festivals throughout the year. Iguazu Falls is one of the most famous Argentina tourist attractions that boasts stunning views. This waterfall is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and undoubtedly one of the most spectacular waterfalls in South America. Do you know the first thing that comes to tourists’ minds about Argentina? Well, it's Buenos Aries, the most charming city in the whole of South America. The place offers countless Argentina tourist spots in the form of delightful museums and art galleries. Ushuaia is one of the must-visit places to visit in Argentina. This isolated location is one of the epic locations in the world as it is the world’s southernmost city. San Juan de Salvamento Lighthouse is one of the popular Argentina tourist places. It is also known as the End of the World Lighthouse. If you are seeking adventure, Volcan Lanin is the best place to head next. This place is famous among hikers and rock climbers. Argentina boasts impactful history, prevalent culture, stunning attractions, and buzzing cities on every corner. Planning a vacation in Argentina? Don’t wait much. Dook’s Argentina tour packages are waiting for you to explore. From discovering awe-inspiring cities to trekking across the glaciers to watching the sensuality of Tango dance, there is so much to enjoy in Argentina. It’s the beauty and variety of things to see & do that keep you coming back to this place. So, what are you looking for? Head for a soothing holiday in the heart of South America- Argentina!
Plaza de Mayo


Tierra del Fuego Province


Parque Nacional Los Glaciares


National Mint of Bolivia


Plaza de Armas


San Cristóbal


Prague Metropolitan Area


Pedro del Castillo


Cerro de la Gloria


Monument to the Army of the Andes


El Challao


Virgen de Lourdes

Chile
Chile, a magnificent gem of South America, is one of the premier destinations that boast the most diverse landscapes. Packed with sightseeing opportunities, Chile tourist attractions, lush-green forests, tall peaks of the Andes, stunning coastlines, and tempting volcanoes, Chile makes every tourist happy with its diversity. Chile is most commonly known as the Switzerland of the South. It is every nature lover and Adventure enthusiast's favourite place to head as it has so much to offer. From unexplored Chile tourist spots to vineyards, deserts, beaches, lakes, glaciers, and whatnot, Chile is just not a place- it's heaven. No matter what kind of vacation you seek in Chile, you will be surprised to find the sheer amount of things to do and experience in this lovely country. Not just Chile tourist places are popular among travellers- there are some ideal destinations for hiking, paragliding, swimming, horseback riding, mountain biking, and surfing. The breathtaking natural beauty of this country is one of the best things to explore. After all, everything comes from natural attractions. Chile is also famously known as the place of poets as two great poets from the country have been awarded the Noble Prize. Whether you are interested in hiking through surreal landscapes or discovering ancient sites, Chile has everything you need. On vacation, you can explore endless Chile attractions, indulge in its vibrant culture, and admire the seamless high-altitude landscapes. If you look at the reasons to visit this country, you will be amazed! Easter Island, the most preferred destination in Chile, has everyone’s heart. It is among the list of top Chile tourist attractions that charm a large number of visitors every year. This fascinating island has an extraordinary stone sculpture that remains Chile’s most stunning attraction. Santiago, another marvel of Chile, is the cultural capital of this country. This city is home to countless fun things to do and explore the museums & galleries. Some famous Chile attractions in Santiago are the Chilean National Museum of Fine Arts, the Museum of Pre-Columbian Art, and Santiago Metropolitan Park. The Chilean Lake District is one of the most stunning places to visit in Chile. This place is worth exploring. If you are seeking adventure, the Chilean Lake District offers endless hiking and biking opportunities. Lauca National Park is one of the best Chile tourist spots, which consists of high plains, mountain ranges, and large volcanoes. This national park also features some significant archaeological sites. It is an ideal place for bird-watching, where over 140 species of birds stays. There are many more things to discover in Chile, such as Pumalin Park, Chiloe Island & Chiloe National Park, Cochamo Valley, Valparaiso, and more.If reading about all these enticing Chile tourist places has made you visit this country, you must check out Dook International travel packages. We offer customized Chile tour packages that you can personalize as per your travel needs. With Dook, you will get everything sorted. From flights to accommodation, you don’t have to worry about anything. So, it’s time to put your vacation plan into execution.
Saint Lucia


Plaza de Armas


Catedral


La Moneda


Torres del Paine


Grey Glacier


Nordenskjöld Lake


San Pedro de Atacama


Panama Canal


El Tatio

Bolivia
Bolivia is one of the underrated travel destinations in South America. It may be a hidden country, but it offers an adventure like no other. Adorned with surreal landscapes, cheerful festivals, buzzing market streets, Bolivia tourist attractions, unique cultures, and vibrant cities, Bolivia tends to win the heart of tourists. Located in the heart of Central South America, Bolivia is surrounded by varied terrain spanning Andes Mountains, Amazon Basic Rainforest, and the Atacama Desert. From salt flats to La Paz, Madidi National Park, Reserva Eduardo Avaroa, and more, Bolivia attractions are sure to make your heart skip a beat. Whether you want to admire nature or experience city life, you have countless options. Be it ancient & cultural sites, diverse wildlife, or extreme adventures- Bolivia stands firm on everyone’s choice. One of the significant reasons why tourists choose to travel to this gem of South America is its warm & friendly locals. They will welcome you with open arms and guide you through every corner of the country with love. Besides strolling through famous Bolivia tourist spots, there are endless outdoor activities that you can indulge in. If you are an adrenaline junky, plenty of heart-pounding activities are waiting for you. The indigenous culture in Bolivia is one of the main highlights of Bolivia, where you will see a lot of traditions and unique clothing. Not one or two or three- but 36 different indigenous cultures are there with their language and cultures. Isn’t Bolivia extremely fascinating?Now, when it comes to exploring Bolivia tourist attractions, it is not only about the places & unique sites but also discovering the country’s food, colorful markers, and different festivals. Bolivian cuisines are an ideal combination of Spanish influences and indigenous ingredients. You can try Bolivian food on the streets, cafes, luxury restaurants, and other outlets. The local markets of Bolivia are one of the delights of traveling to this South American gem. Moreover, Bolivia tourist places are waiting for you to explore. Salar De Uyuni is one of the most visited places in Bolivia. Spread across an area of over 10000 km- many visitors witness the world’s largest salt plain here. Lake Titicaca, the largest lake in South America, is one of the most stunning places to visit in Bolivia. It offers a surreal travel atmosphere that draws the attention of many tourists. Madidi National Park is one of the famous Bolivia attractions that is spanning across 7000 square miles from the Andes deep into the Amazon. It is one of the most spectacular bio-diverse places on the earth. You can experience the beauty of this park through ecological and cultural tours. Overall, Bolivia has the potential of winning the hearts of tourists with its magnificent beauty.No matter what kind of holiday preferences you have, Bolivia will never disappoint your wanderlust soul. However, you can always customize your travel experience. And for that, who is better than Dook International? We have attractive Bolivia tour packages that you can customize according to your travel preferences. So, don’t wait and go on the best holiday to South America’s secret gem- Bolivia.
Tunupa volcano


National Mint of Bolivia


Coqueza Canton


Cerro Rico


Amano, Pre-Columbian Textile Museum


Recoleta

Ecuador
Ecuador is a fascinating nation with indigenous cultures, stunning landscapes, colonial architecture, and verdant rain forests. Enclosed by Colombia, Peru, and the Pacific Ocean, this beautiful country attracts a myriad of tourists. With so many Ecuador tourist attractions, you will be spoilt for choice. From Andean peaks to the Amazon, tropical beaches, Inca Ruins, and Galapagos Islands, Ecuador has many wonders in its lap. For explorers, there are endless Ecuador tourist spots to discover. If you are a sports enthusiast, countless climbing and trekking adventures are waiting for you in Ecuador. Likewise, nature lovers will have their share of treats in the form of Amazon forests and the Galapagos Islands. For all the sun-seekers, the country’s tropical beaches unwind a beautiful world. The pristine beaches are one of the most awe-inspiring Ecuador tourist places. Ecuador is all about real things- you will experience the uniqueness of culture, history, nature, and heritage sites at its best. This South American country is one of the world’s most environmentally diverse countries. Full of natural wonders, tropical rainforests, glaciated volcanoes, wildlife adventures, and fizzy beaches, Ecuador is an incredible place. Whether it's Ecuador’s locals, gastronomy, biodiversity, UNESCO World Heritage Sites, adventure, and enchanted islands, Ecuador never disappoints. So, if you haven’t decided where to head next, Ecuador is the place. No matter what are your holiday preferences, Ecuador has it all. One of the prime Ecuador tourist attractions is the Galapagos Islands. This UNESCO World Heritage Site houses an incredible ecosystem. A visit to this untouched place provides plenty of opportunities for wildlife viewing. Quito, the capital of Ecuador, is no less than a tourist attraction. Being one of the best places to visit in Ecuador, this ancient city has well-preserved colonial architecture, old churches, public squares, and uncanny museums- filled with history at every turn. The other Ecuador attractions include the two most famous national parks- Cotopaxi and Cajas. You can explore these national parks on your day trip and get the opportunity to witness many volcanoes up close. The Devil’s Nose (La Nariz del Diablo) is another popular attraction in Ecuador. This train line between Alausi and Sibambe offers an astounding experience. During the journey, you will witness the panoramic views of the countryside. Otavalo Market is also one of the top places to visit in Ecuador, offering endless opportunities for retail therapy. You can explore the handiwork, local arts, crafts, and clothing. Moreover, you can witness the charming surroundings and hot springs in the small town of Banos de Agua Santa. The Banos is one of the popular Ecuador tourist spots. It offers countless recreational activities, including mountain biking, hiking, and trekking trails. All-in-all, Ecuador is everything that you need.If you want a memorable holiday experience in Ecuador, you must buy Dook’s tour packages. We have some exciting Ecuador tour packages that align with your interests. Every package has numerous Ecuador attractions that you can explore on your vacation. You can even customize your travel experience with us. Now, what is holding you back then? Go get the best deal and enjoy your vacation in this South American paradise.
Intinan Folk Museum
The Intinan Museum is located just outside of Quito right next to the Mitad del Mundo monument. Intinan Museum is a colonial-style tourist village complete with a main square church post office bullring and gift shops.

Presidents Palace
Carondelet Palace is the seat of the government of the Republic of Ecuador located in Quito. Access is by the public space known as Independence Square or Plaza Grande around which are also the Archbishops Palace Municipal Palace Hotel Plaza Grande and Metropolitan Cathedral.

Independence Plaza
Independence Square is the principal and central public square of Quito Ecuador. This is the central square of the city and one of the symbols of the executive power of the nation.  Its main feature is the monument to the independence heroes of August 10 1809 the date remembered as the first cry of independence of the Royal Audience of Quito from the Spanish monarchy. The square is flanked by the Carondelet Palace the Metropolitan Cathedral the Archbishops Palace the Municipal Palace and the Plaza Grande Hotel.
Uruguay
Uruguay, the second smallest South American country, is a place of many contrasts. Filled with serene beaches, spectacular landscapes, and picturesque Uruguay tourist attractions, Uruguay captivates every beat of your heart with its beauty. It is so diverse that it can cater to the need of every traveler. Whether you want a romantic getaway or an adventurous trip, this destination has much to offer. There are many incredible things to do and see in Uruguay that you should explore and indulge in. One of the awe-inspiring Uruguay tourist spots is its beaches. Bordered by the Atlantic Ocean, it offers an abundance of sun rays, sea waves, fun activities, and friendly beach resorts. The vibrant cities are one of the best places to visit in Uruguay, which engage every tourist's heart with fascinating colonial-era centers and pulsating tango clubs. The wide range of cultural and historical landmarks of Uruguay will entice you with astonishment. Uruguay celebrates a few traditions that are adopted from African Heritage. Among the other reasons to visit Uruguay, the quaint location of this country is why people visit here more often. Uruguay’s countryside adds more charm to your holiday in this place. It is one of the best Uruguay tourist places where you can try horse riding and admire the natural scenery around you. There are many Uruguay attractions in the form of historical urban sites and architecture that you should visit. Visiting Uruguay is the best way to get away from your routine life to a remote area. Colonia del Sacramento, the oldest city in Uruguay, hides a lot of history that you should unearth on your visit. One of the main Uruguay attractions of this place is Barrio Historico. Being a UNESCO World Heritage Site, you will find a lot of historic buildings, ruins, and museums. Punta del Diable is a beautiful village that offers plenty of shops, restaurants, and accommodations overlooking the rocky coast. This untouched part of Uruguay is famous among tourists for its quiet escape. You can indulge in adventurous activities or explore the Santa Teresa National Park in Punta del Diable village. If you haven’t seen sea lions ever, this is your chance to spot them in Cabo Polonia. This tiny hamlet has a population of only 100 people who live in pretty small houses. The nearby deserted beaches around the village are the main Uruguay tourist spots, where you can witness sea lions easily. These beaches are the largest colonies of sea lions in South America. Moreover, Montevideo is one of the best places to visit in Uruguay. It is a fascinating place with loads of art galleries, music venues, and theaters. Uruguay is indeed a place of amazement and enchantment. If you want to visit this country in South America, you should check out Dook’s tour packages. We have enticing Uruguay tour packages with all the stunning attractions that you can explore on your trip. Uruguay is a low-key destination with many surprising wonders that may leave you awestruck.
Independence Square


Gateway of the Citadel


Estévez Palace


Salvo Palace


José Batlle y Ordóñez

Mexico
Mexico is a budding tourist destination, welcoming visitors from all over the world. Blessed with endless sunshine, marvellous scenery, stunning Mexico tourist attractions, and soft sandy beaches, Mexico is a breathtaking escapade. Not to mention, Mexico’s astonishingly rich cultural heritage is one of the main sites to behold. From natural wonders to culinary delights, Mexico satiates the heart of every traveller. With countless Mexico attractions, travellers experience the best of this country. Be its breathtaking beaches, marine life, artwork, and history & culture, you name it, and Mexico will present you with it. Cosmopolitan cities, the Caribbean coastline, flourishing restaurants, and quirky colonial towns are everything that makes your holiday pleasurable. The biggest reason people visit this country is its culinary traditions, which are- varied and delicious. There’s so much to linger on besides tacos and tortas. Apart from famous Mexico tourist spots, you will find people hoarding and grooving on the loud music rhythms. The traditional music scenes in Mexico are common thing. Also, the locals of Mexico are extremely friendly and welcoming. They are always eager to help and guide you through the city. No matter what kind of holiday you are seeking, Mexico has everything in its bucket. From a variety of wildlife to deserts to turquoise seas to lush jungles, Mexico has something for every visitor. Mexico has some epic landscapes that uniquely present the marvellous sites of the country. Monarch Butterfly Biosphere Reserve is one of the most loved places to visit in Mexico. It is nature’s great spectacles that you can witness on Earth. Every year, Monarch Butterflies take a long journey of at least 3000 miles from eastern Canada to the forests of western central Mexico. Copper Canyon is one of the most visited Mexico tourist attractions. This canyon is one of the largest and deepest canyons in the world. The best way to explore the Copper Canyon is through the “Chihuahua al Pacifico” Railway. If you are a beach lover, Tulum is an ideal spot. You will find the best beaches in this geography. It is one of the best beach destinations in Mexico. From crystal-green water to picturesque landscapes, Tulum offers quaint moments here. The island of Cozumel is one of the stunning places to visit in Mexico that offers a perfect Mexican getaway. Most travellers are drawn here for its endless sunshine. The exotic beaches on this island are Playa San Juan, Playa Santa Rosa, and Playa San Francisco. Some of the other prominent Mexico tourist places are Guanajuato, Cathedral Metropolitana, Cenote Dos Ojos, Santa Prisca Church in Taxco, and Isla Mujeres.Mexico is a year-round destination where every kind of traveller can relish the best time of their life. Once you are here, you won’t want to leave this dynamic land. Filled with endless attractions and natural scenery, Mexico awaits your arrival. If you seek to spend a few days in Mexico, try Dook’s Mexico tour packages. You will never regret taking our assistance in planning your vacation. We are here to help you with everything. So, book your flight to Mexico with us for the never-ending thrill.
Puerto Vallarta


Tlaquepaque


San Miguel de Allende


Bosque de Chapultepec Segunda Seccin
Chapultepec more commonly called the Bosque de Chapultepec in Mexico City is one of the largest city parks in the Western Hemisphere measuring in total just over 686 hectares. Centered on a rock formation called Chapultepec Hill one of the parks main functions is an ecological space in Greater Mexico City. It is considered the first and most important of Mexico Citys lungs with trees that replenish oxygen to the Valley of Mexico. The park area has been inhabited and considered a landmark since the Pre-Columbian era when it became a retreat for Aztec rulers. In the colonial period Chapultepec Castle was built here eventually becoming the official residence of Mexican heads of state.

Museo Nacional de Antropologa
Mexico Museum of Anthropology is an educational institution

Palacio De Bellas Artes
The Palacio de Bellas Artes is a prominent cultural center in Mexico City. It has hosted some of the most notable events in music dance theatre opera and literature and has held important exhibitions of painting sculpture and photography. Consequently the Palacio de Bellas Artes has been called the Cathedral of Art in Mexico. The building is located on the western side of the historic center of Mexico City next to the Alameda Central park. The first National Theater of Mexico was built in the late 19th century but it was soon decided to tear this down in favor of a more opulent building in time for Centennial of the Mexican War of Independence in 1910.

Museo Soumaya Plaza Carso
The Museo Soumaya is a private museum in Mexico City and a non-profit cultural institution with two museum buildings in Mexico City - Plaza Carso and Plaza Loreto. It has over 66000 works from 30 centuries of art including sculptures from Pre-Hispanic Mesoamerica 19th- and 20th-century Mexican art and an extensive repertoire of works by European old masters

Zona Arqueolgica Palenque
Palenque also anciently known as Lakamha was a Maya city state in southern Mexico that flourished in the 7th century. The Palenque ruins date from ca. 226 BC to ca. 799 AD. After its decline it was overgrown by the jungle of cedar mahogany and sapodilla trees but has since been excavated and restored. It is located near the Usumacinta River in the Mexican state of Chiapas about 130 km south of Ciudad del Carmen 150 meters above sea level. It averages a humid 26 C with roughly 2160 millimeters of rain a year. Palenque is a medium-sized site smaller than Tikal Chichen Itza or Copn but it contains some of the finest architecture sculpture roof comb and bas-relief carvings that the Mayas produced. Much of the history of Palenque has been reconstructed from reading the hieroglyphic inscriptions on the many monuments historians now have a long sequence of the ruling dynasty of Palenque in the 5th century and extensive knowledge of the city-states rivalry with other states such as Calakmul and Tonin.

Balneario Xel Ha
Xel-Ha Park is a commercial aquatic theme park and ecotourism development located on the Caribbean coast of the state of Quintana Roo Mexico in the municipality of Solidaridad.

Templo del Oratorio de San Felipe Neri


Alebrijes day club


Musa Underwater Museum
The Cancn Underwater Museum is a non-profit organization based in Cancn Mexico devoted to the art of conservation. The museum has a total of 500 sculptures most by the British sculptor Jason deCaires Taylor and the others by five Mexican sculptors with three different galleries submerged between three and six meters deep in the ocean at the Cancn National Marine Park.

Isla Contoy
sla Contoy is a small island in the Mexican state of Quintana Roo approximately 30 kilometers north of Isla Mujeres. The island is only 8.5 km in length and has an area of 3.17 square kilometres. Since 1961 Isla Contoy is protected by the Mexican government and was declared a national park in February 1998.

Ro Secreto Mxico
Ro Secreto is a semi-flooded limestone cave system near Playa del Carmen Quintana Roo Mexico. There are 38 kilometers of caves in the system of which approximately 10% are used for ecotourism. Currently Ro Secreto is protected as a nature reserve.

El Castillo


Temple of Warriors


Cozumel Cantina


Yucatan


Aguas Calientes


Mexico City Metropolitan Cathedral


La Quebrada
La Quebrada is one of the most famous tourist attractions in Acapulco Mexico. Divers entertain tourists by jumping off either of two ledges on the cliff one that is 40 feet high and the top one which is 80 feet high. The divers must calculate the right moment to jump to catch an incoming wave and avoid serious injury or death. Occasionally jumpers dive with a torch.

Colegio Mesoamericano
The Pyramid of the Magician is a Mesoamerican step pyramid located in the ancient Pre-Columbian city of Uxmal Mexico. The structure is also referred to as the Pyramid of the Dwarf Casa el Adivino and the Pyramid of the Soothsayer. The pyramid is the tallest and most recognizable structure in Uxmal.

Pyramids of Teotihuacan


Frida Kahlo Museum

Paraguay
Paraguay, a landlocked country between Brazil, Argentina, and Bolivia, is a novel destination for a heart filing vacation. This charming country has a bounty of places to visit in its lap. Swanking an unusual blend of cultures, these unusual places to visit in Paraguay will amaze you. Tucked away in the heart of South America, Paraguay boasts untamed natural beauty, a fascinating colonial story, and pleasant summers. From shopping havens to culinary delights, there’s much more to unwind in Paraguay. Packed with picturesque national parks, elusive creatures, the country’s history, traditional markets, delicious food, hiking trails, and whatnot, Paraguay tourist attractions are endless in number. Paraguay also offers many opportunities to make your adventurous soul happy with outdoor activities and heart happy with vibrant festivals. Moreover, history buffs can explore unmissable ancient past stories. There are Paraguay tourist spots that are worth visiting in every way possible. It may be the least visited country in South America, but it has something that you shouldn’t miss out on exploring. From history to friendly people, everything about Paraguay is unmatchable. Paraguay will satiate every inch of your soul with joy, no matter what kind of vacation you are expecting in this country. Among the top places to visit in Paraguay, Asuncion leads the list. Despite being the oldest city in South America, it still holds its charm. The stunning location and welcoming culture of this place leave everyone awe-struck. Saltos Del Monday is a place of elegance. This place captivates the attention of every tourist, adorned with picturesque landscapes of waterfalls. It is one of the Paraguay tourist attractions that you can capture on your phone. Palacio de Lopez is one of the best Paraguay attractions that is a site to behold. This attraction looks extravagant at night when it lits up. Moving further, you can also explore Cerro Cora National Park. If you are someone who loves ecotourism, this national park is a perfect place for you. The lush green national park is one of its kind Paraguay tourist spot. If you want to explore this tranquil destination, you should book a travel package to Paraguay and experience a mindful holiday. For tour packages, you don’t have to go anywhere. Dook International is here to help you. We have some alluring Paraguay tour packages that are budget-friendly. So, don’t wait and grab your best deal. Paraguay is waiting for you to unearth its hidden treasures.Guyana
Guyana is a tropical paradise that offers an uncanny blend of rich cultural heritage, natural wonders, and vibrant biodiversity. Located on the northeastern coast of South America, it boasts a stunning array of landscapes, lush-green rainforests, Guyana tourist attractions, and vibrant wildlife. Whether it's adventure, architecture, or nature, Guyana has everything in abundance. It may be an off-the-beaten destination, but its natural landscapes, diverse cultures, and rich history make it an ideal place for travelers. One of the most fascinating Guyana attractions is its Eco-tourism. The untouched wilderness of this place draws the attention of many tourists. You can embark on a mesmerizing journey through the verdant rainforests of the Amazon, where you will see an astounding array of exotic flora and fauna. Nature enthusiasts can relish great opportunities for exploration. Besides the top Guyana tourist places, it also offers authentic cultural encounters that you can experience. From its indigenous villages to traditional lifestyles, and spiritual practices, Guyana boasts all of it. Guyana promises untamed beauty and cultural diversity that offers an unforgettable experience. Whether you seek adventures in the wilderness, yearn for unique travel experiences, or immerse yourself in cultures, Guyana invites you to unwind your wanderlust heart. Guyana tourist spots are hidden treasures that create timeless memories. Kaieteur Falls is nature’s paragon. This awe-inspiring falls is one of the best Guyana tourist attractions. Located in Kaiteur National Park, it is the world’s tallest waterfall. Tourists can watch the sheer beauty of this fall and observe unique plant species and vibrant birdlife in the neighboring ecosystem. Iwokrama Forest is an impeccable rainforest that displays incredible biodiversity. It is one of the most astonishing places to visit in Guyana. It offers unparalleled opportunities for wildlife encounters, birdwatching, and jungle experience. Moving further, you will meet with Georgetown, which is the capital city of Guyana. Georgetown is a famous city for its colonial architecture, cultural heritage, and vibrant markets that wins every heart. Moreover, one of the most stunning places to visit in Guyana is the Shell Beach. You can find the four species of endangered sea turtles- green turtles, hawksbills, olive ridleys, and leatherbacks. Mount Roraima is another Guyana treasure that invites tourists to embark on a thrilling adventure. If you love trekking, here’s a chance to trek through the magnificent landscapes, moss-covered rocks, and unusual rock formations. Climb the mountain and watch the surreal panoramic views that seem to belong to another world. Guyana is a hidden South American treasure that you must unwind. If you plan to visit this country, buy Dook’s tour packages. We have compelling itineraries for your trip and exciting offers on Guyana tour packages. No matter what kind of traveler you are- we cater to all your vacation needs. Now, don’t wait and enjoy the best tourist attractions in Guyana.
National Museum of Anthropology


Mabura Hill


Kaieteur Falls


Iwokrama Canopy Walkway


Essequibo River


Demerara Harbour Bridge

Namibia
Namibia, a Southwest African country, is filled with natural wonders, fascinating wildlife, historic sites, breathtaking landscapes, mighty dunes, and much more. It is one of the most tourist-friendly countries in Africa that offers impeccable hospitality. Home to gorgeous Namibia tourist attractions, Namibia is an incredible place to visit. Namibia’s natural attractions range from the oldest deserts to sandy coastlines to rocky mountain peaks. Known for its abundance of wildlife, you will be surprised to see the sheer number of elephants, giraffes, lions, and rhinos that can be seen roaming through national parks. The captivating wildlife is one of Namibia attractions that draws the attention of many visitors. Prepare to explore the remarkable things and indulge in delightful things to do in Namibia that may take your breath away. Namibia’s otherworldly landscapes are one-of-a-kind things to experience. It consists of dramatic views of the wildlife, sweeping dunes, and unspoiled nature. Being a remote country, you will find less crowd, which gives you a chance to experience only the best things. The local culture of Namibia is also one of the most enchanting things to experience. Namibia people still respect their culture and live a traditional lifestyle. Ghost towns are one of the renowned places to visit in Namibia. These spooky towns offer unearthly vibes that may wake your sleeping wanderlust soul. If you love lone escapes, Namibia is a perfect destination. There are many remote escapes that you can explore.  Etosha National Park is one of the best Namibia tourist attractions. No vacation in Namibia is complete without taking a safari through Etosha National Park. On this safari, you will get a chance to experience the world’s most famous animals closely, like lions, elephants, giraffes, and antelopes. Fish River Canyon is another one of the breathtaking places to visit in Namibia that boasts beautiful landscapes. It is one of the largest canyons in the whole of Africa that stretches as far as the eye can see. Sossusvlei is one of the must-see Namibia tourist spots that is home to the world’s largest sand dunes. Do you know Kolmanskop Ghost Town is among the top Namibia tourist places to visit? Yes, you read that right. It used to be a place of German inhabitants, but now with no one living there- it has been converted into a ghost town. As you walk through this ghost town, you will see decaying walls, empty buildings, peeling paint, and caved roofs. Epupa Falls is another marvel in the list of Namibia tourist spots. The biggest waterfall in Namibia- it has jaw-dropping landscapes of nature. Overall, there are a lot of things to witness in Namibia that are untouched and unspoiled.If you are contemplating your visit to Namibia, don’t do it. Namibia is a beautiful holiday destination for every traveler. If you make up your mind for the Namibia vacation, don’t forget to check out Dook’s holiday packages. We have interesting offers on Namibia tour packages that you can avail of and customize your travel experience. So, pack your bags and be ready to explore the unexplored.
Otjiwarongo


Etosha National Park


Anderson Gate Etosha National Park (Southern Entrance)


Brandberg Mountain


Namib Desert

Zambia
Zambia, a well-known safari destination, is a budding tourist destination in Africa. The country is home to fascinating history, incredible heritage sites, captivating Zambia tourist attractions, rugged terrain, vibrant culture, diverse wildlife, and impressive natural wonders. Three rivers flow through the whole country- the Kafue, the Zambezi, and the Luangwa. These rivers boast a perfect backdrop for a landscape where animals wander freely. Bordered by numerous countries like Mozambique, Zimbabwe, and Botswana, Zambia gives you countless reasons to visit this country. While it is filled with countless Zambia attractions, it is often considered an off-the-beaten destination. From Victoria Falls to National Parks, Zambia has everything you like. Zambia’s rich cultural heritages are one of the reasons why history buffs keep coming back to this country. You will find something to boast about, learn about, and explore at every turn. Besides places to visit in Zambia, sheer adventures are awaiting your arrival. You can indulge in numerous outdoor activities like bungee jumping, safari, hiking, white water rafting, hot air ballooning, and snorkeling. Not to mention, African cuisines also tend to win the hearts of tourists. If you are in Zambia, don’t miss out on trying the African food- it tastes so good.Victoria Falls, the most stunning Zambia tourist attraction, is a world-famous landmark in Africa. This magnificent waterfall was unveiled in 1855 by David Livingstone. It was named after Queen Victoria. Being a UNESCO World Heritage Site, it attracts a lot of visitors every year. Lake Kariba is one of the most exotic Zambia tourist spots that offer spectacular views of the natural landscape and breathtaking sunset. This lake is also one of the biggest man made lakes in the world. Blue Lagoon National Park is one of the hidden gems of Zambia. It falls among the best places to visit in Zambia. Unexplored natural beauty and numerous species of birds & animals are what makes this place more exquisite. If you take a safari stroll around this national park, you will be amazed to see zebra families, a flock of buffaloes, and vibrant migratory waterbirds. Another one of the famous Zambia tourist places to visit is the Nyika Plateau National Park. Nyika Plateau national park is the most sought-after location for all adventure enthusiasts, dotted with green valleys and grasslands. You will see rare and endangered flora and fauna. If you want to spot Wildebeest, Liuwa Plain National Park is the best place. It is one of the famous Zambia tourist spots where you can see thousands of wildebeest. All-in-all, if you are visiting Zambia, be ready to enjoy nature and nature’s being. Ready to fly to Zambia? Well, you got to see Dook’s Zambia tour packages. We offer round-the-clock assistance, from visas to accommodations- everything gets done beforehand. In addition, we have ongoing offers on our holiday packages that you can avail of anytime. So, hurry up! Book your tickets to Zambia.
Siavonga


Zambezi River


Kariba Dam


Santa Barbara Chapel

Rwanda
Rwanda, the Land of Gorillas, is a budding tourist destination that offers a unique holiday experience. Located in the heart of East Africa, this charming country offers breathtaking landscapes, sparkling cultural heritage, and rich biodiversity. Rwanda tourist attractions are the biggest draws for visitors. From national parks to gorillas, shimmering lakes, picturesque landscapes, and verdant hills, there’s so much to unwind in Rwanda for a nature lover. The country’s history is one of the most remarkable Rwanda attractions for visitors. If you are a history buff seeking to understand and learn Rwanda’s history, you are in the right place. Rwanda is also pioneering in eco-tourism that preserves natural resources. It promotes eco-friendly activities like bird-watching, hiking, and gorilla trekking. If you are an adventure-seeker, you should involve in outdoor activities like these. A destination becomes more remarkable because of its warm and friendly locals. It adds an extra layer of charm to the overall holiday experience. The cultural background, traditional dance, and classical music offer a fascinating glimpse into Rwanda’s cultural heritage. Besides, there are many places to visit in Rwanda. From Kigali to Lake Kivu, Rwanda has so much to offer. Rwanda is an ideal destination for everyone who loves nature, culture, and adventure.Nyungwe Forest National Park is one of the paradisical Rwanda tourist attractions that draw the attention of most tourists. This park has a sparkling array of biodiversity, including plants, birds, and mammals. A lot of visitors love to watch chimpanzees. Volcanoes National Park is one of the most famous Rwanda attractions. This national park is home to endangered mountain gorillas, which are about 600 in number. If you are in Rwanda, Volcano national park is a perfect place for gorilla trekking. The trekking experience will be unforgettable as you hike through mystical bamboo forests, swampy areas, and wild meadows. Gorilla trekking in Rwanda is safe and gives you an authentic experience. Kigali, the historic capital of Rwanda, is one of the popular places to visit in Rwanda for unwinding the past of the country. One such horrific incident of the past is genocide. Although the country has come a long way from that devastating massacre, the impact of that event had taken countless lives. You can learn about the event in detail at Kigali Genocide Memorial. The museum dives into history and brings you the horror of the past through artifacts, photographs, and information. Lake Kivu is another spectacular gem in the list of Rwanda tourist spots. This lake is the best place to rejuvenate and relax in the lapse of nature. Lake Kivu is one of the largest lakes in Rwanda, with a 2700-sq-kilometer-long stretch. Whether you plan a short vacation or go on a week-long holiday, you can embark on an adventurous journey. If you want to go on a unique and adventurous trip to Rwanda, try looking at Dook’s Rwanda tour packages. We have fascinating holiday packages that can immerse you in a completely new experience. Our Rwanda tour packages also include many tourist places and attractions that you can explore and admire. So, pack your suitcase and leave for adventure.
genocide memorial kibagabaga rwanda

Botswana
Botswana is an exquisite African country that captivates the attention of tourists. The diverse wildlife, pristine wilderness, and enchanting landscapes add charm to this place. Being the least populated country in Africa, Botswana is heaven for safari and nature lovers. Known for exciting adventures and incredible Botswana tourist attractions, it's hard to find a country like Botswana. The best part about this country is its fewer crowds. Being an underrated country, very few people travel to Botswana. This fact makes it more popular among tourists who love to visit remote locations. Botswana has the maximum population of elephants in the world. These elephants are one of the top Botswana attractions. Moreover, the locals of this country are very warm and welcoming. No feeling is better than visiting a place that feels like home. Being surrounded by kind and beautiful people, you enjoy more and instantly connect with them through culture and traditions. If you are in Botswana, you should miss out on watching the mesmerizing sunrise and sunset. The awe-inspiring vistas it creates are from out of the world. Besides visiting famous Botswana tourist places, you will be surprised to see sustainable luxury. The modern comfort and luxury experience is beautifully designed with an authentic sustainable design & materials. Botswana offers a perfect getaway for someone who loves nature, wildlife, and adventure.Okavango Delta is one of the best places to visit in Botswana for wildlife watching. It is the largest inland delta in the world, which is the Africa trip’s highlight. This unspoiled wilderness is home to countless natural habitats. Okavango Delta is also made it to the UNESCO World Heritage Site List. Chobe National Park is another secret gem on the top Botswana tourist attractions list. It is the most stunning wildlife-watching site in Botswana for safaris. Home to innumerable elephants, big cats, giraffes, zebras, and buffaloes, Chobe National Park is heaven for safari-goers. The Kalahari Desert tops the list of Botswana tourist places that can never go unexplored. If you are in Botswana, don’t forget to visit the Kalahari Desert. Its spectacular dunes, glittering salt pans, beautiful grasslands, and pristine river valleys are a sight to behold. If you love stargazing, Makgadikgadi Pans National Park is the best place to visit. Here you can try horseback riding and quad biking over the lunar-like landscape. Manyelanong Game Reserve is one of the most spectacular Botswana tourist spots. This reserve is home to an extended population of the endangered Cape Griffon vulture. Manyelanong is one of the three places in the country where you can find vultures. Botswana is filled with so many unmissable tourist attractions that you must see. Plan a trip to Botswana and unearth a completely new world where nature and it's being live. If you decide to go to Botswana for a holiday, check out Dook’s holiday packages. We have interesting Botswana tour packages that you must try. Our holiday packages include every single attraction in Botswana- from Chobe National Park to Manyelanong Game Reserve. So, grab your deals and fly to Botswana for a fulfilling vacation.
Okavango Delta

Jamaica

Rose Hall
Rose Hall is a Jamaican Georgian plantation house now run as a historic house museum. It is located in Montego Bay Jamaica with a panoramic view of the coast. Thought to be one of the countrys most impressive plantation great houses it had fallen into ruins by the 1960s but was then restored. The museum showcases the slave history of the estate and the legend of the White Witch of Rose Hall.

Ocho Rios

Dominican Republic

La Romana


Chavón River


Rio Ozama


Los Haitises


Los Haitises National Park

Puerto Rico

El Bosque Nacional del Caribe
El Yunque National Forest formerly known as the Caribbean National Forest is a forest located in northeastern Puerto Rico. It is the only tropical rainforest in the United States National Forest System and the United States Forest Service. This forest is commonly known as El Yunque which may be attributed to either a Spanish approximation of the aboriginal Tano word yu-ke which means white lands or the word anvil which is yunque in Spanish. The second-tallest mountain within El Yunque is also named El Yunque. El Yunque National Rainforest is located on the slopes of the Sierra de Luquillo mountains encompassing 28000 acres of land making it the largest block of public land in Puerto Rico. The highest mountain peak in the forest rises 3494 feet above sea level. Ample rainfall creates a jungle-like settinglush foliage crags waterfalls and rivers are a prevalent sight. The forest has a number of trails from which the jungle-like territorys flora and fauna can be appreciated. El Yunque is also renowned for its unique Tano petroglyphs.

Castillo de San Cristbal
Castillo San Cristbal is a fortress in San Juan Puerto Rico. It was built by the Spanish to protect against land based attacks on the city of San Juan. It is part of San Juan National Historic Site. Castillo San Cristbal is the largest fortification built by the Spanish in the New World. When it was finished in 1783 it covered about 27 acres of land and partly encircled the city of San Juan. Entry to the city was sealed by San Cristbals double gates. After close to a hundred years of relative peace in the area part of the fortification was demolished in 1897 to help ease the flow of traffic in and out of the walled city. This fortress was built on a hill originally known as the Cerro de la Horca or the Cerro del Quemadero changed to Cerro de San Cristbal in celebration of the Spanish victories ejecting English and Dutch interlopers from the island of this name in the Lesser Antilles. At the time it hen formed part of the insular territorial glacis of Puerto Rico. Castillo de San Cristbal also contains five cisterns that were used for the storage of water during the ages of the Spanish Colony. They are extremely large and were used as bomb shelters during World War II.

Isla Verde


El Yunque National Forest


La Perla


San Cristóbal

