

DIMAPUR
Echoes of Antiquity
It is called the Gateway to Nagaland. A quaint city nestled in the plains of the Dhansiri River in the Northeast of India, Dimapur is a perfect blend of ancient history, rich culture and vibrant modern life. Whether you are a history buff, an adventure seeker or a culture explorer, Dimapur offers a unique mix of experiences for all travellers.
This bustling town was founded by the Kachari rulers, a Tibeto-Burmese people who were displaced from their territories in Assam in the 13th century by the invading Ahoms. Some of the ruins of their old capital can be seen in the heart of the town. Most notable are 30 carved megaliths, believed to be fertility symbols. About 5 kms from the city centre, on the road to Kohima, is the Ruzaphema Bazaar which displays a fascinating range of tribal handicrafts.



DIMAPUR-ZOO
A Refuge for Diverse Species
Dimapur Zoo, situated amidst the lush greenery of Nagaland, stands as the lone zoological park in the state, located approximately 6 km from Dimapur's township. Established in 2008, this zoo spans an area of 176 hectares, providing a sanctuary for 369 animals, birds, and reptiles across 47 different species. The park is not just a site of animal conservation but also a place of learning and recreation, drawing a significant number of visitors, especially families and students, throughout the year.



THE-KACHARI-RAJBARI-RUINS
A journey through a timeless land
The veil of time shrouding the land, an unexplored realm awaiting the curious and the intrepid, the echoing whispers of the medieval monuments... Did you smell a mystery? That's how you feel when you step into the enigmatic Kachari Rajbari Ruins, a testament to the ancient civilisation that once flourished in the land of Dimapur, Nagaland.

These ruins, dating back to the 10th century during the reign of the Kachari civilisation, stand as silent witnesses to a bygone era. Before the tumultuous waves of history swept through the region, the Kachari Kingdom reigned supreme here.

This is a territory of overgrown grass and crumbling stones, where a series of mushroom-domed pillars rise defiantly, their purpose obscured by time. Some lay broken and weathered, while others stand tall and proud.

Theories abound regarding the significance of these structures. Some suggest they once held symbolic importance, their phallic-like shapes hinting at ancient rituals and beliefs. Others speculate that they were reminiscent of chess pieces, playing out a strategic game lost to the annals of history. In 1840, Lieutenant Grange, a colonial officer, stumbled upon these ancient relics during an expedition to the Naga Hills.

The Kachari Rajbari Ruins beckon you to unravel its secrets and discover the truth hidden within its mysterious stones.



LIPHANYAN-GOVERNORS-CAMP
Nature’s Playground
Imagine a place that has Nature’s bounties converging – a gushing, meandering river, lush timber forests and picturesque slopes from where you can soak it all in: welcome to the captivating Liphanyan Governor’s Camp.

Approximately 45 kms from Dimapur and located amongst the verdant flora and fauna of Wokha, the Camp, perched by the beautiful Doyang River, is an ideal spot for picnics, camping, fishing and even rafting – making it a serene getaway for nature lovers and adventure enthusiasts.



DIEZEPHE-CRAFT-VILLAGE
Crafting a cultural legacy
Nothing showcases the identity and culture of a people more evocatively than its handicrafts – a physical manifestation of skills, natural bounty, traditions and a sense of history. Nowhere will you find this more gloriously showcased than at the Diezephe Craft Village. At the Diezephe village, a 500-strong community of skilled artisans and weavers, the art of handloom weaving and creating handicrafts is a way of life.  The village exudes a vibrant heritage even as it proudly displays craft showrooms, weaving workshops, and a captivating craft museum.
