1. Ziro, Arunachal Pradesh
If you’re in Arunachal or even the North East, Ziro is something you just cannot miss. The ultimate cultural retreat among the very friendly tribes and the awesome locales will stick with you for a very very long time. And they have a number of festivals throughout the year, from music to cultural fiestas, which are a glorious treat for travellers.

2. Mcleodganj, Himachal Pradesh - Land of His Holiness the Dalai Lama - Little Lhasa
The hilly beauty of Himachal is best enjoyed at this hamlet called Mcleodganj, and the beauty and wilderness around it, just adds to the marvel that the place is. If you want to soak in Himachal in its pristine beauty, head over for a short trek to Triund, which sets off from Mcleodganj, and is the most amazing way to go cloud-gazing!

3. Majuli, Assam - World's Largest Fresh Water Island
Think of water so blue that you lose all inhibitions and lose yourself in the calmness of the placid waters. That’s the feel of Majuli for you. If you’re travelling to Assam, do not miss this river island of the mighty Brahmaputra, and do not miss their fresh fish!

4. Bodh Gaya, Bihar - Buddha, Mahabodhi Tree and the land of Nirvana
The peace of the Buddhist-dominated town, along with the silence and serenity, make Bodh Gaya our top pick for Bihar! If you ever find yourself in Bihar, do not give Bodh Gaya a miss.

5. Dantewada, Chattisgarh
Chattisgarh, the Mecca of Offbeat tourism, is great when it comes to quiet temples hidden away in deep forests, a population of diverse cultures and tribes and some very offbeat tourist places.

6. Kutch, Gujarat - The White Desert of India
There are few things you’ll ever see that match up to the beauty of the white Rann paired with the setting sun and the wild, colourful beauty of its amazing locals. Not to mention that if you’re on a road trip, you might want not to come back at all! That makes the White Rann of Kutch; our bucket list pick for Gujarat!

7. Alleppey, Kerala - Backwaters, Beaches and Lagoons - Venice of the East
Unless you’re there, it's highly improbable that you’ll fall in love with Kerala the way you fall asleep – slowly, and then all at once! Although, this is more of the latter. Kerala is called “God’s own country” for a reason, and to find out the reason; you should probably go visit Alleppey.

8. Damdama Lake, Gurgaon
Damdama Lake, a quiet retreat away from the hustle and bustle of the capital, is a must-do from Haryana. Quietly set away in Sohna, this is a great place to run away to if you’re around.

9. Leh Ladakh, Jammu & Kashmir - India's Own Moonland
The crown on India’s head, Kashmir, is a delight for anybody who visits. However, Ladakh is in a class of its own. The beautiful lakes, Pangong Tso, Tso Moriri, are a reason to visit! Moreover, oh, if you have the enthusiasm that goes with it, ride to Ladakh! Nothing beats that experience.

10. Betla National Park, Netarhat, Jharkhand
The only way to enjoy Jharkhand in its entirety is to soak in the nature that still runs thick in its blood. Head over to Betla Forest and say hello to a bunch of adventures and much wilderness – both flora and fauna!

11. Hampi, Karnataka - The abode of bygone ruins, rusty colors and fascinating landscape
The historical ruins of Hampi are the best experience that you’ll probably have in Karnataka. Apart from being one of those places where you can just put on your hiking shoes and walk around for hours, it also is a great place to chill!

12. Jaisalmer, Rajasthan - The Golden City
At the risk of sounding too conformist, a desert camel safari is just too exhilarating an adventure to miss. If you are in Rajasthan, do not risk missing this for the world!

13. Sun Temple, Konark, Odisha
Beachside beauty is a lovely architectural marvel in India. Drive away from the Puri beach for a few odd hours and find yourself in the beautifully constructed Sun Temple. Winter days are the best time to visit this haven of quiet!

14. Valley of Flowers, Uttarakhand - Serene valley of Flowers
Think Uttarakhand, think of the pristine beauty that comes with it. What better way to look at that, than visiting the Valley of Flowers! Between June and September, the valley comes to life with wild blooms and the trek is even more mesmerising.

15. Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh - The City of Nizams
Some old world charm and biryani make up the newest entrant to the state list, but that is in no way all that Telangana boasts of. Head over to Hyderabad and indulge in history walks, gape at some fantastic architecture and dig into the best food that you might ever eat!

16. Bandhavgarh National Park, Madhya Pradesh - The Tiger's Den
Wildlife is the most awesome wealth of central India, and Bandhavgarh is a fantastic place to see it and enjoy it. The big cats make it all the more enticing, right?

17. Goa - Beaches, Sunsets and Crazy Nights
Nothing beats the fun of an all-night party in Goa, and waking up to the roar of the sea and your thoughts to keep you company, right?

18. Darjeeling, West Bengal - Queen of The Himalayas
And then there’s Darjeeling, the beauty that is cradled in the northern reaches of West Bengal. To know Darjeeling is to love Darjeeling, and this is the perfect place to visit if you find yourself in Bengal!

19. North Sikkim, Sikkim
While Sikkim has remained on travellers’ fantasies for generations, North Sikkim is just too beautiful to be missed. The Tsomgo Lake, the Gurudongmar lake, the high passes, the snow-capped peaks and all the lovely sunrises, are great additions to add to your “Been there done that” list.

20. Tamenglong, Manipur - Manipur's home to exotic flora and fauna
The wild beauty of Manipur isn’t something you’d want to give up the chance to experience! Plus, for non-veggies, there is some GREAT food as well, that is just fire to gunpowder. Virgin, untouched lands, sure are the calling from God!

21. Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh - The Spiritual Capital of India
On Banaras, Mark Twain has written, “Benaras is older than history, older than tradition, older even than legend and looks twice as old as all of them put together”. To understand the essence of Uttar Pradesh in its entirety, you need to set foot in the holy city at least once and seep in the beauty of Kashi. Like its been said, “Kadam rakho Kashi mein, tar jaoge Kashi mein.”

22. Double Decker Living Root Bridge, Cherrapunjee, Meghalaya
Dense forests, clean villages and one of the most impressive natural phenomena ever. Not something you’d want to miss in this life!

23. Lunglei, Mizoram - A simpler paradise
Clouds, hills and an excellent climate all year long make up this fantastic experience that is to be found in Mizoram. Going through a Mizo family album is wondering, “Damn! They spent all their lives in a Holiday.”

24. Bhandardara, Maharashtra
And then, there is Maharashtra, with all its silken Sahyadri beauty, with all the lovely waterfalls and mist and clouds and emerald water and peacefulness. Give Bhandardara a go to check off your Maharashtra Travel Bucket List!

25. Borra caves, Visakhapatnam
While the circuit of Visakhapatnam and Araku is a great road trip journey as well, Borra caves simply cannot be missed. The stalagmite formations in this naturally formed cave are breathtaking, and the wet fragrance that dominates the caves is a beacon from nature itself. Check this off your list to understand the beauty of Andhra!

26. Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu - The land of three seas
The southernmost tip of India is a delightful odyssey of beautiful beaches, colourful sunrises and sunsets, and a haven for beautiful pictures. At the fear of being roasted, the winters are a better time to visit!

27. Mokokchung, Nagaland - An urban habitat to Ao Naga
Nagaland is the beauty that is made up of hills and valleys, waterfalls and passes. The food is glorious, and so are the awesome locals. Mokokchung is a high-altitude town that is your mecca for picturesque peace and quiet for a few days.

28. Golden Temple, Amritsar
The eternal beauty of India, the abode of sanctity and peace just cannot be missed if you’re ever in Punjab. You can sit at the Sarovar for hours and reflect; you can listen to the Baani at 4 in the morning and feel completely at ease with your being. The Golden Temple is an experience just too amazing to miss.

29. Unakoti, Tripura - Your trek to Indian Mythology
Massive rock-cut Shiva and Parvati architecture, cut out of a 30 feet tall rock sculpture, is a marvel you cannot miss. The state is also home to tea estates, which though smaller than those in Darjeeling in size, are still great places to visit.

