

SRI-HARMANDIR-SAHIB-GOLDEN-TEMPLE
An ode to compassion, humility and service to fellow beings
Nestled in the heart of Amritsar, Punjab, the Golden Temple stands as a beacon of spirituality, unity, and service. Floating like a shimmering mirage of gold on the tranquil waters of Amrit Sarovar, the temple is a place of worship and a symbol of Sikh values such as equality, service, and community. It owes its name to the astonishing 400 kilograms of pure gold leaf adorning the dome.

As you approach the gurdwara, also known as Harmandir Sahib, you are struck by its majestic golden dome shimmering in the sunlight, drawing you closer to its sacred embrace. The name, Shri Harmandir Sahib, however, comes from ‘Harmandir’ derived from ‘Hari’, signifying God, and ‘mandir’, meaning temple. The addition of ‘Sahib’ to its name denotes reverence and respect within Sikh tradition.

History whispers through the marble walls of the Golden Temple, telling tales of devotion and resilience. While the temple was founded by Guru Ramdas Sahib, the 4th of 10 Sikh gurus, the construction of the temple and its pool was continued by Guru Arjan Dev, the fifth Sikh Guru, in 1588.

The temple has witnessed centuries of faith, turmoil, and triumph. The intricate architecture, a fusion of Islamic and Hindu styles, reflects the inclusive ethos of Sikhism, inviting people from all religions come to seek solace. The temple has been renovated many times, adding features such as the marble inlays along the floor. Maharaja Ranjit Singh, founder of the Sikh Empire of India (1799-1849) had the temple’s upper floors covered in 750 kilos of pure gold.

Its golden dome, exquisite architecture, and serene surroundings attract millions of visitors worldwide every year, making it one of the most visited religious sites in the world. But beyond its stunning beauty, the Golden Temple is also a symbol of Sikh philosophy, which emphasises the equality of all people, regardless of caste, creed, or gender. Sikhs all over the world pray in their Ardas daily, wishing to pay obeisance at Sri Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple).

One visit never feels enough to experience the emotion of the Golden Temple, but you can try. Plan your visit to coincide with the vibrant festivities hosted at the Golden Temple, such as Baisakhi and Diwali, to experience the Golden Temple at its most vibrant.
